This is Jockel Podcast number 314 with Echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening.
I go. Good evening. The machine rolls on. That's what happens. When your time is up and you leave, the machine is going to roll on.
And that can be hard on your brain, on your ego. It can also just be hard because you love the teams. You care about the boys.
And when you leave, you worry about the void that is there. And you think, who's going to fill that void? And you wonder if you did a good enough job passing on what you learned.
And that's rough. That was one of the hardest things for me when I left when I got out of the Navy. Because my whole life, my whole life had been in the sealed teams. I was full on institutionalized by the sealed teams.
I didn't know anything else in the world. And I couldn't help but feel that I was leaving them hanging, leaving my friend hanging that I was letting them down.
But the reality is that the machine rolls on. And there are guys that are ready to step up and take your place and take things to the next level and do a better job.
And carry the torch and take the fight to the enemy and uphold the traditions and uphold the reputation of the teams and elevate it.
And so, because this next generation of frog men step up the machine rolls on. And I am lucky enough to have one of those frog men here with me tonight Carlos Mendez.
And I am lucky enough to have one of those little frog men who have been here. And I am lucky enough to have one of those little frog men who have been here.
And Carlos, thanks for joining us, man. Pleasure to be here. What year did you check in a team one? 2005. Okay, so it was like I checked in a team one in 1991.
No fun one. It was still no fun when I got there.
Well, we'll get there. Let's go back to where you came from because damn, I mean it's a weird ride, right? It's a, it's you got a, you got an interesting background story. So you're not even, you're not born to America.
No, that was born in Guatemala. So, you know, you know, you know, I'll even start before that.
So my father passed away when my mom was pregnant with me. Oh, great. So yeah, actually she got the news on the day of her baby shower.
What a die from car accident.
Yeah.
So I was born in Guatemala to a single mom, obviously. And, you know, my grandparents, my, my dad was their favorite son.
So when my mom had me, I was the favorite grandchild. And they had, they had a lot of, they wanted a lot of control over the way she raised me. And it was this conflict back and forth.
And, you know, when I talked to my mom, she said, ultimately, that's what.
I drove her to the decision to immigrate to the US. She's like, I need to get you away from here because I was, I was spoiled rock.
From what I hear, I was an absolute terror. And I can get away with it because grandma was there to protect me. And yeah, she used to babysit me. My mom would drop me off in the mornings.
And it was funny because the things that you remember, just so weird, I remember, we would go get gas in in Guatemala. You know, people don't have a lot of money. So if you filled up a full gas tank, you got a baby chick.
Okay.
Yeah. So my mom, you know, filled the gas tank up and we would get a baby chick. So I remember I would drive back to my grandma's house. And I would have that baby chick. And we had all kinds of them, you know, from all times we filled up the gas tank.
So, any chasing chasing a bunch of chickens and chicks on the backyard.
It's interesting that your mom, she got to be a pretty interesting human because you would figure, here she is single mom.
And she actually has this kid, you, that is getting soon over by the grandparents. It seems like a single mom would be like, thank God these grandparents are here to help me through this.
And I'm totally, I'm kind of set now, right? I got like backup as opposed to no backup, which you know, your dad was dead. I mean, that's, but she, but she just thought, oh, he's being spoiled.
We're out here.
Oh, yeah, my mom's a gangster. She is very old school Hispanic, just very, you know, disciplined.
Screw your feelings kind of thing. It's always your fault kind of thing.
I remember any time I got in trouble, she said, would you do it was your fault?
I'm like everybody else's parents stand up for them. I'm like, what would you do? I know, I know was your fault.
Somewhere another was your fault. So that's why I was kind of joke around with JP that I had extreme ownership.
Yeah, basically. But yeah, that's what drove her decision to leave Guatemala and suit US.
So how old were you when you came to the US? Do you remember, I guess you must remember to remember the class?
I mean, there's, you know, things here and there that you remember, I was like four or five, but I do remember I was in school.
And I remember showing up to school not being able to speak English.
And my mom set me up for total success. And I say that's our classic because she would dress me up in like a college or everything was had to be like a call because you know,
Guatemala, you dress nice to go to school. You have uniform.
And now we were in San Francisco, not in Nice Area either.
And so I'm wearing this, you know, button up shirt with some some Docker type pants that we got at the goodwill.
Sure had to be tucked in. And like these alligator skin shoes.
Because in Guatemala, they're cheap, you know, like all year skin shoes. So that was like the thing.
And she's like, you know, Guatemala, these are like a luxury.
I'm like, well, over here is getting my ass kicked.
Where these alligator shoes and dockers and tucked in shirt. So yeah.
I needless to say I ran to a lot of issues when I first showed up.
Didn't speak English and dressed them like a complete door.
And then, you know, the kids that I'm with are little rough around the edges.
What did your mom do for work when she got her?
So I remember she worked at.
She worked at the school that I was at. So she can keep an eye on me as a teacher's assistant.
And then after school, I remember she worked as she would clean houses.
And I remember going after school, we would go to whoever's house and she would clean it.
And I would do my homework while she cleaned.
And if I didn't have homework, like I would help her out.
And then I think like twice a week or so, she would go to English school to learn how to speak English.
And I'll go with her there.
And if you're getting what's immersion training at school, because just showing up in there speaking all English.
Oh yeah. Yeah.
And it's kind of funny because when, so my mom's side of the family was already in San Francisco, Oakland, Baria.
Oh, so that's why we moved there.
She had her side of the family there.
My dad's side of the family was the one that's saying Guatemala.
Because they're actually pretty well off there.
So she had that support system.
And I thought it was, it was interesting how my family was like, oh, the kids need to learn how to speak English.
So the kids won't make fun of them.
And my mom was like, I don't care about his feelings.
Like, okay, they make fun of him. So what?
He's not allowed to speak English at home.
Because he's going to forget Spanish.
He's going to learn English regardless.
But I want him to remember how to speak Spanish.
So at home, I wasn't allowed to speak any English.
You're well as a gangster, huh?
Oh, dude. She's just heartless.
And then, so then you end up, she ended up meeting someone else or getting married to someone else, right?
Like, like, a step down showed up basically.
Yep.
So she actually met my stepdad in San Francisco and English school.
So he was from Czechoslovakia when it was still Czechoslovakia.
Yeah.
And his story is pretty amazing.
You know, when he was in high school.
So he was there when it was still under communist rule.
Mm-hmm.
So when he tells a story, you know, he was in high school and he drew a cartoon,
criticizing communism.
And I guess like a week later, some men showed up.
They dragged him out of school.
They beat him up.
And then they told him, hey, when you graduate,
we're going to send you to the mines and you're going to die there.
You're going to work there for the rest of your life to die.
So he was just like, nope, not happening.
He started planning his escape.
And didn't tell anybody not a soul,
packed his stuff and like this green bag that he actually still had when I met him.
Packed everything he had in there and ran away.
And he just recently told me this story to like maybe two, three months ago.
Like the actual details of how he crawled for days across the border.
And somehow made it into Yugoslavia.
And yeah, it's a pretty crazy story.
Yeah, the when you're in those communist countries,
the amount of in government in for like,
it's some crazy number, like 50% of people are government informants.
It's a crazy number.
So you're step that couldn't have told anybody because if you tell one person,
you might as well just tell everybody and you're going to get rat it out.
And he's already got the threats of being the mines for the rest of his life and dying there.
Good lord.
Yeah.
Freaking savages.
So they end up getting married.
That means that the next phase.
Yeah, they start dating.
And in my head, I'm thinking like, oh, sweet.
I'm finally going to have a dad.
You know, little did I know he was meaner than my mom.
You know, I mean, he's a hard hard man.
I mean, he's, you know, communist block.
They grew up very, very hard up there.
Life is hard.
So he was hard on me.
So what were you doing growing up?
What was it?
What was a day in the life of Carlos?
Let's say age 11.
Oh, by that time we had, I'm not sure.
I don't remember if we had already moved out to Sacramento at one point.
You know, they were like, hey, you know, the barriers just to expensive.
It's not a great place to raise a family.
And we moved out to Sacramento.
And I remember we started renting this house out that had this huge yard.
Well, for me, it was huge.
I hadn't seen a backyard.
You know, in the same room as this guy or Oakland.
And, and he just gave me a ton of chores.
Like, that's what my life, so my life was I come home from school.
I do chores.
I do homework.
And then after we dinner, you know, I wash all the dishes.
I take everything off the counter, wipe them all down.
Sweet mop.
Like, that was something that I did every single day.
And then in the backyard, I always had all kinds of chores that he had for me.
And I think a lot of it too had to do with he worked on.
Like, he is probably the hardest working man I've ever met my life.
Like, yeah, he was mean and probably growing up.
I wasn't, I hated him growing up.
But now that I'm all grown up and I look back like man, that guy worked his ass off.
Like, he did anything and everything he could do.
Like, I remember he used to sell like vacuums for electrolux.
He used to deliver pieces for Domino's pizza.
He finally got into it.
I teach he tech to become a drafter.
So he became a drafter eventually designing like elevators or something like that.
And then I remember he would do that all day.
He would come home.
He would take a nap and then he would go back and deliver pieces all night long.
You can get maybe like two, three hours of sleeping, do it all over again.
So, you know, looking back now, I'm like, okay, that's why I had to do so much stuff around the house.
Because he just wasn't around.
He was providing for the family.
And when you get to like what kind of kids are you hanging out with?
You play any sports or anything?
No, my mom and like I said, my mom and dad were both really strict on me.
And the only two things that I was really allowed to do growing up,
I remember were Legos and reading.
So I would devour any book.
I can get my hands on because we weren't allowed to watch like TV.
Actually, I don't think we owned a TV for a big portion.
And then finally when we did, we weren't allowed to watch a whole lot of it.
They had a subscription to Reader's Digest.
So I would read Reader's Digest, cover to cover.
As soon as it came in, I was actually the one that ripped the wrap rope and I would just start reading.
And it's funny because it was actually the first time that I was exposed to the teams.
Even though I didn't know it, there was an article in Reader's Digest when I was a kid.
And it was something like the hardest school.
You know, I don't remember exactly what the title, but it was, it talked about this gentleman who was in the army.
I saw some team guys and went to Buds and he talked about his experience going to Buds.
But at the time I didn't know what it was.
I was just like, oh cool story.
But yeah, Legos, reading, I wasn't allowed to really play with other kids because my life was like chores and homework.
And my parents were both perfectionist.
So, you know, I would turn in my homework and if the handwriting was sloppy, they'd do it over.
Or like the dishes.
Like if I do the dishes and like one of them was wrong, my stuff, I'd be like, do it more lower.
No, dang it.
So, that's kind of how I remember my childhood was a lot of chores.
homework.
And then kind of just reading a lot and playing with Legos a lot.
Yes, sir.
Did you end up, yeah, I think you've mentioned me, you had some kind of like a little farm or something at some point?
Yeah.
Or like at least some little animals running around the house.
Yeah, so at one point, you know, we got accepted for this program that was like for low income families,
where they allowed you to build your house.
And it would offset some of the costs, but it would, you know, it was like a pat to ownership.
Yeah, that's legit.
And so my parents both applied for it.
We got accepted.
So for a long time, that was actually a big part of my childhood too.
For a long time, I remember like going to school and then going to help at the construction site.
My weekends, same thing.
They were, they were suspended the construction site helping build our house.
And when it was completed, you know, my stepdad had all kinds of stuff in the back yard.
Like we had this little farm.
So we had, he built like, when I say he built, I'm a mostly I built.
Because my weekends were like, I remember I, he can say,
Oh, I'm going to get to sleep in.
And I would just hear a bang on my window like at five,
30 in the morning and a 10 like, hey, get up.
It's time to work.
I'm like, dang.
You know, so I go out there and we built the greenhouse.
We had all kinds of fruits and vegetables.
We had a compost pile.
So I remember digging that hole.
He made him wanted it so big.
And I spent forever.
I did all our irrigation.
So I dug all the holes for that.
And then he got this idea for, so we had all our fruits and vegetables.
So he's like, now we need our meat.
So he's like, we're going to, you know, and check.
We used to grab it.
So I remember going to the state farm like looking at all these different rabbits.
And then he's like, oh, these are the kind that you can eat.
So we bought like a male rabbit and like two or three females.
And we started breeding rabbits.
Little did I know that was going to be that's,
so that's another chore now.
I had like taking care of these rabbits feeding them, you know,
cleaning up their poop.
And then when I got the poop, I put it in the compost pile.
And everything, like all the clippings from the grass and everything we grew with
throwing the compost pile and now I have to get in there and like mix it up and it's miserable.
But then the baby rabbits got to the to age.
And he's like, hey, your chore from now on.
Another chore is going to be like, hey, you're going to kill the rabbits.
You're going to skin them and you're going to put them in the freezer.
And I'm like, well, I don't know how to kill a rabbit.
He's like, you know, learn today.
And he's like, well, let me know.
He's like, let me know when you kill that first rabbit.
Let me know and I'll show you how to skin it.
So I remember being a kid because I'm looking at, I'm like, I'm holding it this part.
I want to say junior high.
Okay.
So what's that?
Like 12 or 13?
Yeah.
Something like this.
I'm all around 11 or 12.
Okay.
Because I remember being young.
Because I remember the first one, I'm like, okay, I think I'm going to drown the rabbit.
Right.
So I grab a bug. Yeah. I fill it up with water.
And I grab this rabbit and I put it in the bucket and it free him won't die.
And now I'm crying.
I remember crying because I'm like, oh my god, please die.
Just die, damn it.
And I'm just holding it and just, like, finally, you know, the rabbit dies.
And I'm just like, oh my god, that was most miserable experience ever.
I'm like, I'm literally, I'm crying. I'm a kid.
And so finally, I go back in. I'm like, okay, I killed the rabbit.
You know, I'm going to need to eat like, stop crying, Fufina.
That was his nickname for me.
Which Fufina is, is Regan Czechoslovakian for what?
It's Czechoslovakian for pussy.
So, you know, he shows me how to skin the rabbit.
And I'm like, okay, and I'm not really paying attention because I don't drown the time.
You're all on the time, bro.
And then he's like, raise your rabbits.
So, so now he's like, okay, it's time to kill the second one.
And now I'm like, I'm going to do it a different way.
So I'm like, I grab a two-by-four.
I'm like, all right, I'm going to hit this rabbit on the head.
So I grab the rabbit. I'm like, patting it.
You know, and then I hit it, but I kind of half has hit it.
So now he's just like, torlling in my hands.
And now again, I got snott running out my nose tears.
And I'm just like, hitting this rabbit again, like, please damn it.
Just die.
And finally after wacking it, like a million times died.
Same thing comes out, teaches me how to skin it.
And then on the third rabbit, something happened.
You know, something already happened.
So I was like, but something happened that actually stuck with me for, for till today.
Oh, actually.
All right.
So I remember I got this rabbit and I'm petting it.
And now I'm talking to myself.
And I'm like, all right, motherfucker.
By the way, this is how serial killers get created.
Just have a nice, full on the stock of yourself.
So when I told my wife the story, she's like, I get it.
But I'm looking at this rabbit and I'm like, you know, talking to myself.
I'm like, pop, pop myself up.
I'm like, you know what?
I got to commit.
Like 100% commit.
So I remember I grabbed that rabbit.
I grabbed that two by four.
And I hit it as hard as I could.
And it was out.
And from that point on, it's crazy.
Because even in the teams, when I did something that I was a little bit scared of,
or even in, you know, anything, I'm like commit.
That thought has always kind of my head like, if you're scared of doing something,
you've got a 100% commit or it's not going to work.
And then that moment, I had that epiphany.
That's the 11, 12 year old kid.
So yeah, that's my rabbit story.
So I, you know, a lot of times people ask me questions about,
because I got kids in parenting and all that stuff.
And one thing I warn parents of, you know, if you push hard to get your kids,
they're going to push back.
And by the way, this isn't just with kids.
This is with a seal puttune.
This is with a company that's with a business.
You start imposing stuff on people.
They're going to start to push back because they're humans and humans don't like to have things imposed on them.
And you can, by the way, you can impose things on people permanently.
But you have to like crush them.
Yeah.
You have to continuously crush them forever.
And you have to be willing to go to that distance where you crush them,
which is not going to produce the type of humans that you want.
So was there any push back?
And let me rephrase that at what age did you start to say,
I'm pushing back against this stuff.
I'm going to say around my sophomore year.
You know, I'm 15.
And, you know, like I said, my stepdad ruled with an iron fist.
And at that point, I'm like, you know what?
I'm not scared of you anymore.
Because his punishments were so extreme.
His punishments were like, oh, you're grounded for the weekend.
It was like, the ground up for the next two months.
And if I messed up, it was like another month.
And it was like, dude, there's like no light at the end of this tunnel.
Two months when you're a kid.
It's a lot of life.
So yeah.
So, and you know, they didn't let me play sports.
So I wasn't hanging around the jocks.
So guess why I hung out with.
I hung out with thugs.
I hung out with the people that weren't the best influence on me.
And I got into some trouble.
You know, and I got locked away in juvenile hall.
And so how old are you?
15, 16 years old.
And I remember when that happened because my stepdad
at this point, he had actually just graduated the CHP Academy.
So now he's law enforcement.
Damn.
Yeah, he's law enforcement.
And I'm running around, you know,
Little, little mini gang banger.
Yeah, breaking the law.
And at one point I got caught.
I got arrested.
And I remember the cop bringing me in and interviewing me.
And I'm just like, I don't want to talk.
Because you know, I got that stupid mentality.
I'm not, I'm no snitch.
No, I'm a gangster.
So I don't snitch.
I don't say anything.
And he's like, hey, it's not going to go a little.
I know everybody else was singing like a bird.
So it's crazy because I remember going to court.
So they put me away.
They call my parents and my parents like leave them there.
Like you don't want to come get your kids like no.
Leave them there.
And I knew.
And I even told the cop on like, don't bother call my parents.
They're going to leave me here.
He's like, you were right.
So anyways, I'm in court.
And you know, judge is like, hey, do you want an attorney?
And I was like, no, I don't.
And he's like, are you sure?
Do you know what you're doing?
I'm like, yep, I don't need an attorney.
I was like 15 years old.
I had a represet myself for the call.
Well, I was like, hey, I'm guilty.
I did it.
Oh, I got you.
And he's like, so you plead.
I was like, I plead guilty.
Like I'm not even going to fight it.
And he's like, check.
And he gave me my sentence.
And I remember seeing my parents and no expression on their face.
But I could tell like, my mom was disappointed for me.
Yeah.
They took me away in coughs.
And I had to do my time.
And you've been on the wrong way, you're in duty for me.
I think I think a couple months.
And that's because they were full.
And honestly, I was a good respectful.
I was a very honoured segment.
I made.
But I was a respectful kid because of the way I was raised.
So when I was in duty, like, you know, the correction officers are like, you're like,
the politest criminal I've ever met.
Did you start to see the path that you were going down at that point?
And realize like, maybe this is the way it's going to end up.
Yeah.
So, you know, having different roommates in juvenile hall kind of open my eyes.
I'm like, man, I don't belong here.
Like some of the kids that were in there, like one of my roommates was in there because, you know,
he tried to murder this girl with his friends.
And they were so high off drugs that when they tried to dig, they did the whole to bury the body.
They were so high that they buried the whole, like, not even a foot deep.
And they put her in there and just put some dirt in there and realized you still alive.
You know, I mean, those are the kind of roommates that I had.
At one point, they put me in with like a kid who was in there for hate crime, like a skin head,
and they're for hate crime.
And you know, just being there, I'm like, dang, I don't belong here.
And I felt terrible that my parents, because I knew my parents had raised me the right way.
And I'm like, man, I really let them down here.
So that's why I knew I was like, this is, this is not what I want to do.
So, the source of that, a lot of times you people think that,
but then, you know, as soon as they get out and they get back around their friends, you know,
was that a good enough, like, scared straight situation that you actually,
store scared straight?
I wouldn't say scared straight because now I'm like, okay, I did it.
It was fine.
In my head, I'm like, I'm hard.
You know, like, I go back in the duty.
Now I'm on probation and any little thing is like an automatic 10 days you go back.
So when I got out, same thing, it was actually even worse now,
you know, and it got to the point where I'm like, hey, you know what?
I'm going to do whatever I want, whenever I want, whatever I want,
and I would wait for my parents to go to bed and I would just sneak out of the house.
So you kind of got emboldened.
Oh, because you went in there because it wasn't really a scared straight thing.
It was more like you got emboldened because you think, hey, dude,
I can do what I can do if he wasn't that bad.
Yep, because I don't know.
No factor.
I'll get out.
And you actually got, you actually got worse.
So I stopped committing crimes.
But I was going now.
I just wanted to hang out with my friends, honestly, because it was just so strict.
And where I made my mistake is this is around the time where cell phones started coming out.
So I would, you know, my parents went to bed early too.
And they would put me to bed like an eight o'clock.
I don't know if teenagers put me to bed at eight o'clock.
But at the time of my life.
To cool me, yeah.
Put me to bed early, you know, because the earlier you put me in the early,
I'm leaving.
So I would wait for them to go to bed.
I would go to the living room.
I would grab my dad's cell phone.
And then I would roll out.
And now I'm the only kid like Roman Brown, like with a cell phone.
I'm like, yeah, let's call so and so and so and so and so and so like, you know,
until the cell phone bill came out.
I didn't know that because I didn't know how cell phones were.
Yeah, because back then, this is in the 90s.
Oh, yeah.
So yeah.
So you get your target charge per minute per call.
Oh yeah.
It wasn't cheap either.
No, it was like a dollar a minute.
Yeah, or some crazy like that.
Yeah, so my dad blew a casket when he saw that bill and
all his story, it was just this constant back and forth between him and I.
And it got to point when I told him, I'm like, hey, I'm not scared to you.
I'm going to do whatever I want whenever I want.
Like what do you do?
Meet me?
You're you're crowned me.
I'm already grounded for a life.
And so at this time,
I'm still getting in trouble for smaller things in my probation officer.
It was like, hey, listen, you're like at the point where we're just going to
put you away to your 18.
I was like, oh, okay.
And I had a teacher at the time that I had built a great relationship with.
ship with. He was like a life skills class,
way to you had like right checks, pay your bills,
you know, stuff like that. And him and I had built a good relationship and I don't know how he got
wind of it, but he knew the judge or whatever and he was like, hey, you know, he's a good kid.
He just, he's got a situation at home where he doesn't get along with the stepdad and
and the judge is like, well, if you think he's such a good kid, then you adopt him. And he said, okay,
he adopted me and at that point, like, I think my stepdad was like at the end of his, you know,
his way, he's just like, I can't, I can't handle this kid. He's like, go, and he signed a way.
So you're 16, 17 at this point? 17, yes, 17.
So you're going to basically, you're senior year. You're senior year of high school. You're going to
live with your teacher. Yeah. So I lived with him and it was, uh,
what was the deal with this teacher? Do you just like the coolest teacher ever? I don't know. So he was
very religious. Like very him and his wife were very religious. They had five kids. They had raised
them all to be very like successful people. Like they were just good people. But in my head, I'm like,
what is this guy thinking? Because I wouldn't let some little thug move in with me. But honestly,
when I moved in with him, I was so grateful that I told him, I'm like, hey, this is your house,
your rules, and I'll follow them. And I didn't give him like a peep of trouble because I was so grateful
for what he had done. And he treated me, he treated me like an adult for the first time.
You know, he was just like, hey, if you're going to go out, just let me know who you're with,
what time you've been back. And for me, that was like, what? You know, let me go out with my friend.
They always something that I wasn't allowed to do before. So I was so grateful for that.
I'm like, do as a great thing. I don't want to mess it up and you didn't hear a peep from me.
I'm gonna be the rest of the year. My guy was on my best behavior with him.
Are you getting good grades in school?
Yeah, so actually, that's the funny thing, because I actually did really well in school.
Even this whole time. And it was funny, because I had my probation officer required like a
progress report. So that's how he got a wind of it. Because the teachers would look at me
and be like, dude, you're good kid, you get good grades. What do you feeling this out for?
I'm like my probation officer. Yeah, they would look at me over. Yeah.
Yeah. And so there were a couple of teachers actually during that time that had a big influence on
the one of them's name is Bobby prior. He's prior Navy vet. And he talked about Navy seals too.
And he had a big influence on me as well. And I remember him telling stories about, you know,
when he was in the Navy, and he told me the story that stuck with me for a long time about these two
seals. They were on the beach and they got to fight with some biker dudes. And they just got back
back and back and got after it. And he's like these bikers were laid out. And he just talked about how bad
ass Navy seals were. But I still didn't make that connection, you know what I mean?
The connection being that this is something you could actually do with your life. Correct. Yeah. I was just like,
oh, that's cool. You know, so between him and the other teacher that I lived with,
they were a big influence on me in a different way. Like, I might, you know,
my stepdad taught me a lot of things that I'm super grateful how to be tough, how to be, you know,
work ethic, but they had like a softer, more empathetic mentoring. I think that's a better with.
They were more mentoring me. Yeah. I know the, um, well, here's your, your dad saying,
hey, you can't go out with your friends or sorry, your stepdad saying you can't go out with your
friends, et cetera, your mom's super strict. And it makes you want to not do what they're telling
you to do. Oh, I'm going to the percent. When they impose things on you, making it want to do it,
this other dude says, hey, you do what you want. Just, you know, just let me know what you're doing.
And you all of a sudden want to follow the rules. It's like, so such simple psychology on human beings,
when you impose things on people, they don't like it. When you give them freedom, they're going
to take advantage of it. And you know, positive way, I don't hear something interesting. Like,
I have grown kids now. Everyone that's not grown, but my other kids are, you know, uh, how
122, 20, and 18, they didn't have curfews. Like, like, I just be like, oh, yep, cool. Oh, you know,
go out. This is when they were 13 years old, 15 years old. I'd say, okay, you know, let me know
where you're going. Sometimes, hey, you know, when you're going to be back, you come back tonight.
And I just let them do what they want to do. And they all turn it out. They all are fine, you know,
which
I mean you're like studying then they all
You're like I mean they're all good kid. I mean they're all they all actually all they all good kids. They all like you know are on really good pass in life and I never now if you were to step
There was some incidents that took place along the way some some
Things that needed some corrective measures need to be imposed from time to time if things got a little bit too far out of line and
That happened a few times
But then it was like oh they'd get back in line and realize and then I would just give them kind of given their freedom back
But you know what come one of the key things is that you said is and I tell this to people all the time
Treat them like adults
Especially when they're in that age. This is a trick to this is a little trick to this. There's an age where oh
Your 14 years old. Oh, you think you can you want to be you want to be an adult. Okay cool. Guess what adults have
Jobs guess what adults do pay bills. They pay rent. They pay for their cell phone. They pay for their food
So you want to be treated like an adult you want to do it every aren't cool. I can treat you to like an adult
You'll rent or you know you need to pay for food and all that stuff and they realize really quick
That's a real good
Appreciation tool they want to make somebody appreciate what they've got
Make a treat them like an adult and they kind of they're thinking they want to get treated like an adult
And then when they start getting treated like adult they go
Hey, I'm cool with being a kid for a little bit longer
So what you doing you graduate from high school? Was it straight to the Navy? No, no
I actually know intentions of joining the military
So after high school I started working construction full-time and then on the weekends
I worked at longs drugs on Saturdays and Sundays and this was the summer after I graduated
I really didn't know what I wanted to do and then you know those two teachers are told about they're like oh, so you know
You got to start college. I was like no one had ever talked to me about college and I was like
I don't you know I wasn't excited about it
So they signed me up for college. They helped me out and I started going to community college and I didn't like it
I was there and I'm just like I feel like this is high school over again
Because you know you're taking the pre-rex
They're taking the same stuff so in my head I'm like I'm not learning anything right now
That's gonna help me in life
So I dropped out very quickly. I think I was there for like two minutes and I went back to working construction because I was making
You know for an 187 actually I was still 17 because I graduated on 17. I was making good money for you know 17 18 year old
Sure, and I would work seven days a week because I loved the fact that the more I worked the more money I would make
So I'm like dude, no you mean I can work seven days a week so I did it
And it was around that time at longs drugs. They used to have
VHS you know, it's still a VHS and we rented out movies and so every Friday night
I would go and pick a movie out for myself and that would be my Friday night
And one day I picked up the movie Navy Seals which I really should
And I went home and I watched it and I was just like whoa
This is badass and then that's when I this is these are the guys that Mr. Prior talked to me about that's where I made that connection
And I'm like I'm gonna go be a Navy seal and I didn't even know how to swim that well
Damn yeah, I went into the recruiters office. I think the next day and you know I told him it's like hey
You're sign up for the Navy won't be an Navy seal and of course. Oh, God you have stoked that recruit
Oh, yeah, I was a recruiters carry out standing. Yeah, you look like you make a great Navy seal
Exactly. Oh, yeah, this guy told me set me up for failure like yeah, so he you know
I went through the process very quickly because I'm like hey, I'm committed. Let's do it
You know
And so I
You know, I take the asvap whatever and then he gives me the the Corman rating. He's like we think about being a Corman
I was like, well, sad. He's like oh, it's like a medic when you get out
You're like a registered nurse and you can have a job. I was like, oh, okay cool
So when I get out I'll have a skill so I'll be the medic on the team so I'm like, yeah, let's do it
So
Were you in the dot
Well, you did you get some kind of a seal contract like how they didn't have that back then
But here here's the thing I didn't know anything so this recruiter told me screwed me over one
I wasn't a citizen
So you can't be in the teams without being but you know this part of it will come into play
So you know I go off to boot camp
He ships me off on their corpsmen contracts. I go to boot camp. Yeah, so you're so just to everyone knows
You're doing the Navy as a regular Navy dude as a corpsman and
And that that gives you no leverage whatsoever to try and get to buzz. I mean very little leverage what year is this you think
1999 and by the way
I barely got into the Navy because I had I had felonies on my record
So I had to get like multiple waivers and back then you know being the military wasn't cool
So they were like all right, you know because I told my son now I'm like listen
He knows I got a trouble is kid. I'm like listen. You can't do that nowadays. No, I mean you got to have secret clearances
You got to do this. I mean you do now
It's so their way more selective now. Oh, yeah in every branch and for seals for shirts
Yeah, cuz there's so many kids that want to go into it. Yeah, they can to pick and choose exactly. Yeah, so
So I go to boot camp and they have the video, you know with all the cool stuff and then I'm like this is it
And then I who wants to try out and I raise my hand. I'm like heck yeah, this is it
But the problem is I didn't know how to swim
So we take the screener we take the screen and I and look I can get from one end of the boot of the other
But I am not what you would call a good swim like I never took you know swimming classes
I could do this right I kind of doggy my way over and I wasn't scared of the water
I just I just wasn't good and I failed it the first time around. I was like dang dude
What am I gonna do? You know now I'm really stressing because now I'm like damn I'm gonna go to the regular Navy
And I was really really scared of the regular guys
I don't want to get stuck on a ship and so they're like
My RDC really really liked me. You know, I was her Yoman so I had I had a lot of freedom
You know the Yoman cat like takes all the papers
You have actually a lot of freedom in boot camp to walk around because I would deliver all the all the stuff
Where'd you go to boot camp great legs?
Yeah, so she was like hey, I'll let you try out one more time. I was like oh no, so I go and
And by the way everyone in their mother's trying out so there's like 50 people in the pool. So I'm swimming
And I'm listening to the times and I'm like oh my god
I'm not gonna make it again
So I just stood up at one point. I was like I'm done and they're like okay
Get out and get ready for push-ups and pull-ups. I was like oh shit that worked
So I got out to just cut a lot off your time
I was like two or two
I'm gonna say it was like at least two. I was nowhere near finishing
And but there's so many kids in the pool. I'm like you any work like
Had you worked out at all go so I was very athletic. Yeah, but you didn't play sports. So I played sports in high school
Oh, okay, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, the coaches school. So I played you know in PE I would play football basketball anything
And I would catch on to it very quickly like coaches were always hitting my mom-up
Did you play any sports for the school? No, I wasn't allowed to so it's just PE yeah
And that's why the coaches because the coaches are usually the PE teachers call my mom and they're like hey
Like you're son really needs to play football. I really need to do that because I was really athletic
I was fast and I was functionally strong because I did so many chores that I was I was a very pretty strong kid
You know for my age so
So I was athletic. I could do push-ups all day pull-ups all day, you know, I could run
I just can swim so when I got out, you know
I crushed the pull-ups and push-ups and everything else and so I'm going through the process and then
The dive motivators like hey just so you know
Corment or not it's not a seal rating it was the only year that they did it were for whatever reason
They were like if you want to be a Corment with the teams you got to go to the Marines first
So I was like, I don't want to do that so I went to the office and I changed my rating to like a boat
It's made and then I go back and I'm like hey, you know
I'm a seal rating now and he's like cool now and get you in and then as he's doing my paperwork he's like you're not a citizen
You can't go
I'm like dang it
So I go back I changed it back to a Corment because I know what a boat's made is
So I go back I change it back to a Corment and
You know they're like hey sorry man
We really liked you, but you got to get your citizenship first so
From there I went to course school and then from course school
Where where where do you end up with the Marines, right? Yeah, yep
So about the majority of the Corment especially if you're male you're gonna go to the Marines
So they sent me to school called FMSS where they basically teach you how to be a Marine
You know teach you like Marine Corps
Like ranks etiquette whatever and then at one point they they ask if you want to go Marine Corps regs
Which is basically you got to cut your hair like them and if you do you get like to where they're they're green
uniform I forget what they're called and they're and like everybody was like super moto and then yeah
I want to be Marine Corps rags and then they're like what about you Mendez?
You want to be Marine Corps rags? And I was like no
And like but you get a uniform you get to wear the Marine Corps uniform
I'm like I got enough uniforms because before you had to always carry them around in your sea bag and you had inspections all the time
I'm like I don't want another uniform
And it was right around that time where I met the the recon Corment that was there
I
Mean you just looked at him he just looked like a stud so I immediately gravitated towards him and
And then he's like hey just so you know we're gonna have triodes if you want to be a recon Corment at the time
They were like 40% man like we're really hurting we could really use people so I go and I try out
And I feel this one again
But you know he's like hey man get out do the rest of it and and that screener was actually legit like it was tough
Like it was a rock run it was like pull ups push ups
It was like the Marine Corps PFT and then it was like all these different calisthenics with with no number
You just did it for time and they had a number that they wouldn't tell you
So like hey you got to do this amount of mountain climbers and they wouldn't tell you it was like a day long
Screener and I passed everything else like I crushed everything else and he was like hey I'll tell you what
He's like you haven't till the end of FMSs to pass the swim
He's like you're obviously you know athletic you have the physical ability to do it just can't swim
So I'm like okay perfect and at one point I remember going in his office and doing like the dive physical and get my chest
X-ray and whatnot somehow through conversation
I was like yeah, I want to go to Buds
He's like you want to do what he's like I was like I want to go to Buds eventually like I'm just kind of doing this
You know my time with the Marines and until I could get the Buds and
He grabs my paperwork. He like crumbles it up and he's like he will never
Be a reconquerman and he chugged my stuff in the garbage
He's like yeah, I'm office that was it. I was like oh, so yeah, so
Then I got orders to
24 I'm so grunt grunt battalion there in camp Pendleton and as soon as I get there
I'm like really regretting it. I'm like dang what I do you know maybe I should have just kept my mouth shut and just gone with it
And as soon as I get there, that's usually good advice
Yeah, yeah, this is a my favorite. All right, and so
As soon as I get to 24 they're already like hey, we're getting ready to deploy
So I basically I didn't do a work of branding. I basically just I think I was home from maybe a month and then we deployed
to Japan my first deployment and what are you doing or what are you doing on deployment
Would you exercise this and stuff?
So I was like the the coverage corpsman and and you know
My chief knew that I wanted to go to Buds so he would attach me to like the amphibious assault
Platoon or whatever like whether they did all the boat stuff and OTV stuff
So I did that
Was like their their corpsman basically if anybody got hurt. I was the corpsman coverage for that
But during that deployment that's where I like got really serious about learning how to swim and I was in the pool every chance
I could get like if if I had the time I would go in the mornings I would go a lunch and that's why
Oh, because it was a guy that I met that dropped out of Buds and
Hmm and I told him I was like do you know how to do the combat sidestroke and he's like yeah, I was like teach me
So he taught me and and that's where I I got proficient at that swimming was during that deployment
This is still pre 9 11. Oh, it's just all
Contrary yeah, just going on training missions and big exercises and so that's a normal sex month deployment you go on with the Marines
Yeah, pretty unhavenful get done with that and what happened to you come home from that so I come home and then
We get a new chief and we start talking and then he's like hey, have you ever thought about going recon
I was like you have thought about it, you know, but I want to go to Buds or whatever
He's like hey, won't you have the conversation with this this recon chief and so the recon chief and I start talking and then he's like
He's like hey, we have a guy here who's not really working out and
We want to see if you want to come over here and I told him I'm like hey, I want to be honest. You like my goal is to go to Buds
He's like hey listen, no problem. He's like, won't you come over here? See if you like it if you like it stay if not I'll send you to Buds
And I was like okay, and then he's like
He's like if you come over here, I'll give you BH
Which as an email
Basic allows for housing
But it's legit money. No, it could be like 1200 bucks a month
Yeah, and when you're what were you for you? Oh, you're an E4 you're
Sorta like maybe almost doubling your paycheck not quite maybe like
50% of your pay
You're gonna you're gonna make extra. It's a big deal getting that BH that's why dudes get married by the way
Dude, that's why you see 18-year-old Marines are like you're up and getting married. Oh, you met the woman your dreams
No, but I'm gonna get be a bitch son. They want that BH
Yeah, so it's a big deal especially in the Marines because in the Marines
That the the barracks had to be like 95% man and you had to be like an E5 or above
And so I'm an E4 and he's like BH and some magic words. I'm like let's do it
So I headed over there and and I see the guy that I'm supposed to replace and the guy looks like Superman
I mean he's super tall just jacked and I'm like I'm replacing this guy
And then you know I kind of like I could tell that with the LPO there kind of saw I was like oh dang
You know, I was like this guy and he's like his yeah, he looks like Superman, right?
I was like yeah, he does he's like you know what's his kryptonite water? Oh
I guess he would he would freak out during the water
But because they had him like tread water with but they do a lot of stuff over there with water and and um
Yeah, yes, he would just like freak out. So I'm like okay cool
So that's how I ended up there. Um, they put me right into
My first introduction to them was it was it was an SR
So they were like hey, you're gonna do an O T B S R
Yeah, penultimate yeah penultimate I just been there. I just got there and there was a cornman there who had at the
Reconbite time who who had orders to go to Buds
So they're they're like hey, can you take you know Carlos under your wing kind of show him how to pack out for an O T B S R
And by the way, I've never swam in the ocean before so now I'm about to you know at night get dropped off
Swim to the surf zone. Yeah with with the rock load out. Oh, yeah, which is no joke
Normus so he's like teaching me how to like load my stuff out and then I'm like hey what about like warm weather stuff
He's like this is Reconbroad
And then by the way, this is winter time and and um he's like this is Reconbroad like we don't take that stuff
And I'm like okay, you know
Like check he's like we take batteries and this and that he's like I'm like okay got it
And then I'm like hey question how am I getting this brok through the surf because of that
He's like oh you can put a floatation on it. I put a ton of floatation on my cuz I'm like down on a drown
So we go and we do the SR
I make it through the surf zone just sheer will but I mean I must have swallowed like a gallon of water going to the
Surfzone my first time ever but I you know, I'm trying not to be
The weak link
If you know yeah, I'm trying not to be a ffina
So we make it through and you know we change out we start patrolling and then we get to to the
To the place where we're gonna
Set up camp and then everybody starts busing out their warmings. Yeah, they were and I look around on my
Damn it and then I like hey, what's up doc like where's your stuff?
I'm like where we gone
I thought that we didn't bring warmings out and they like no way bro like we bring a ton of warmings out
Now I'm just like oh
And I'm freezing cold because it's winter time out camp in Otenham
We just went through the surf so I'm still wet and finally I'm just like you know what I'm gonna volunteer to just watch the radio on night
I was like there's no way I'm sleeping tonight and so I did I just
Jack hammered all night long watched the radio and we'd get up and walk around just try to keep my self warm
And the Marines loved it, you know, because I volunteered to do watch all night long for for the rest of this star
But that was my introduction
I was I when I got to the teams. I was a new guy didn't have my bird yet
And I got sent to a comm school out on the east coast that was run by by the teams and I was a new guy and my butt my swim buddy was a new guy two of us and we
We there was like a six day five or six day FTX that you went on at the end of this comm school
It's a two month comm school's freaking legit. It was a great course and
The chief that was running it
You know, I was like asking him questions cuz I always want to know you know what would be a good thing to bring when we're in the field and I said
Hey, you know, or guy, you know, should I bring like a sleeping bag?
Should I and he goes if you're hard core will it?
Because you know I was always trying to be hard core. He's like your hard core will like he was bringing a punch on a poncho liner
And I was like well check. I am fucking hardcore
And I'm just bringing on a poncho to a poncho liner and I did and
That's what I went out and field with and as we inserted
The first night it was raining as we inserted it turned to sleep like as the vehicles pulled up to drop us off and then it turned into snow
It was balls called balls called and
On this course you had like a comms window every
Every two to four hours you'd have to make comms to some different part of the country and
Most guys would like miss comm windows and that would be you're getting graded the whole time and if you had the best grade at the end
Then you get extracted early and
And so
Me my swim buddy same thing like we were we were trying to be hardcore
So we didn't have warm is for shit. We freezing and
We never missed a comm window and the reason we never missed a comm window is because we couldn't
It was just like freezing
But yeah, that's um always bring a ground pad and always bring a bivy sack
Because that's what I learned eventually the bivy sack is the deal if you got a bivy sack
You can climb in there and you can pretty much just gut through some serious shit
Yeah, but um yeah, that's good. That's the way that's what that's what happens to the new guys
Yeah, don't believe when your chief says you we don't bring warmies
These foolish shit. Yeah, well actually the the recon coming that were they they were cool about it
Because they're like hey, we heard what happened like dude
I'm not gonna say the guy's name. He's like he totally hooked you up
All right, yeah, he did
So at that point they put me into rip which is the recon doctoration puttons
So basically it's you competing for a slot at their at BRC
Which is like their selection process and that's a bonus is it still in corn out of it's in camp Hamilton
Okay, so rip is in camp Hamilton. What's the one I used there used to be something corn that's BRC God so in rip
They put everybody in there who just showed up to the talent and you're come because there's only 30 slots
So you're competing
So the top 30 guys go to BRC if you didn't make that cut you go through rip again and hopefully you make it through the you know
You're in top 30 now long as rip so it did there's no like real timeline to it
I think it was just like hey, you're just doing it until the next class
The BRC shows up and then they start ranking you and then you get your your slot
And so you know the common one like hey just you know like you know Marines are always harder on the
Corbin don't let us down and so I go to rip and I'm doing well on everything except for land now
I can't freaking land now to save my life dude. I was just getting lost and I was really getting down on myself and
And then one day I just clicked like I looked at the map and I'm just like
It came to life. I get it. Yeah. I don't know it was just like this moment like a light bulb moment and from that point on like I was like land
I've got it
So I was able to secure a spot to BRC
So I go to BRC which is in corn out of and that's what I start seeing like the blood's guys and I'm like
Dang you know which I was here, but I'm here now and you know I did pretty well and BRC
There was a guy there named Mendoza and he was not good at all and the instructors would get us confused
And so I would be running by and like hey you drop
That was like okay and like wish I heard you lost your map and this and that and I was like that was in me
That was Mendoza and they're like oh
Like we'll push him out anyways, you know and then finally this guy I don't remember if he quit or if he got dropped
But thank goodness because then once he got dropped
I'm just like cool because he was just messing up left and right and they would get us confused
Mendoza so I had to pay the man a few times for his
And then sometimes they're like you know what both of you
Just pay the man how long is BRC?
If I remember correctly back then I think it was like two months long
And so you obviously you finished it. I did not I actually got a stress fracture about two weeks from graduating and
You know they they sent me back to the to the BAS with the corpsman. I got to X-ray and everything like yeah
And at the time you know there's they were like hey how was he doing and like actually he's he ranked number one in the class before he got dropped
So he's like he's welcome to come back and
And then at that point that I hate you want to go back and I said no as I got want to go to Buds
I made my decision that was like here. I want to do this like because here's the thing like if you finish
Now you owe them time because after that they sent us to you finish then you sent you to jump school
Diive school and now you belong to them because they've invested money into you
And it was kind of funny too because when I went they were like
Somehow it came up that I wasn't a citizen and they were like oh shit. You're not a citizen like you actually weren't supposed to go to BRC if you weren't
So they were like let's get you some citizenship so they they kind of fast track me and I was able to get my citizenship
And so they're like hey for the rest of the time here, you know, we're just gonna attach you to a platoon
And so they improved you going about they were like all right, that's what you wanted to do. Yeah, they were really yeah
They were awesome about it. They got great leadership there. They were great great like super professional guys
I still keep in touch with some of them
So hey, it's all you what we're gonna do till you get orders and you go
We're just gonna put you an uplatoon and you're gonna do work up deployment and you just be the corpsman
And then when you get your orders to go to buds you go so
That's what I did until I got orders to go to buns. What are you worried about this stress fractures scenario?
Because like that's all kinds of people get stress fractures but I
Wasn't because I I never you know
I was like oh, I'll heal up on me young no factor. Yeah, so I got orders to go to buds in
November of 2003
Right or 2002 sorry 2002 November of 2002 so where were you when when 9-11 happened?
I was at the for reconbetian, but they were like hey, I don't think we got deployed or anybody from that battalion got deployed
Um
To have can't stand at that time, but I that was still there
But you know at that time already had my path so they're like hey even if you go there
You're not gonna go with the football town so then when do you when do you get the buds finally?
November of 2002
What you expected
I was you must have been pretty freaking kind of ready for it. Oh, oh, yeah, I had I had run with a rock
I'd done OTV's countless OTV's. I was really good at land-out
I mean like I got attached to a platoon did a workup to point with them so I was I was ready
Um
And so when I showed it like oh here's the thing to they they sent me to like a
Like a combat engine here in battalion
They're like hey, we're gonna send you they can't be in the platoon anymore because they're about to deploy and
You know obviously it's gonna overlap you're gonna start buds before when I'm gonna bring you home halfway through deployment
So they're like go to this combat engineer in battalion and you can work out all day and that's where I met this guy named Captain Gwen
Who had like a master's degree in can easyology and was all about in the fitness and when he learned that I was going to buds
He's like let me train you
I was like your series. He's like yeah, so he got me even more prepared like we worked out three times a day in the morning at lunch and afterwards
And then he started teaching me how to eat properly. So when I got to buds I was
I was ready like I could do 30 more pull ups 120 push up 120 set like I was I was a machine when I got there
And your water had obviously improved. Oh, yeah, yeah, I have at that point I'd done countless OTVs and yeah, that was good to go
And then did you get what you expected there in buds any any issues or anything
So when I got there, I'm like, you know everybody tells you oh you got to be the gray man
So I'm like okay cool. I'm gonna be the gray man
But if I gray man people that don't know this is just a term to to explain if you can go to buds and you can kind of
Not stand out that's a good thing because
There's very few people that stand there's only might be one or two maybe three people in a class that stand out because they're good
But the people that stand out because they're bad and then once you got someone watching you
Yeah, then every you're they're gonna start seeing all kinds of things that you're doing that are jacked up so
one of the
Strategies of going to buds is to try to be the quote gray man meaning just be in the middle
Finish the stuff don't stand out don't draw any attention to yourself and
That's a good strategy for getting through and you would hurt. I don't think we had that
I don't think that was a term when I went through
But I kind of instinctively well
Everyone instinctively knew you didn't want the freedom instructors to know your name or your face or you just wanted them to ignore you as much
Sponsibal so you know you just try to do what you're told and try and you know
Yeah, try not to stand out and that was the plan. I'm like all right
I'm not gonna shine you know I'm just gonna stay like the top 25%
But that was not possible because
When I first got to buds you know you're standing watch when you're waiting to class up and
You know a buddy of mine there and buzz like hey, let's go out one night
You know, let's be before we go out so we go out we party and how old are you?
22 yeah 2002. I'm 22. I was like I was young so I couldn't know what's going out. Wasn't the thing
I could go into the the bar the the E club on base you could drink when you're 18
But I wouldn't even want to do that. I was just trying to make it through buds. So it's weird to me
It would've been it's weird to me like having a guy like hey, let's go out to a bar
Because I can't fathom what it would be like to go to a bar when I was in Buds yeah
So we go out and he starts talking to this girl
And then he's like hey, bro like I need you to you know, our friend really likes you like I need you to
To entertain her while I'm with this girl and blah, blah, blah, I'm like do you not got a girlfriend?
He's like come on man. We're gonna be in the teams like you're supposed to have my back
You know what if you don't want to be known as that guy and I'm like really like you're gonna play that card with me
So I'm like dude. I'm not dead. You know, I'll talk to her. I'll keep her busy free, but I could tell she's enemy like she wants
She she wants more and he's like dude. We're gonna go back to their place
And I'm like dude. I really don't want to he's like bro come on. You gotta do this for me
I'm like listen, I think she wants more than what I'm willing to give
Because one I wasn't attracted or two, you know, I had a girlfriend at the time and then um
So I'm like all right dude like I'll go I'll go back to their house with you and
When we get there I see her car and it has a first recomb Italian sticker on it
Oh
And I recognize that sticker because it's a sticker for different parking lots. You had different stickers and that was like an operator sticker
Like if you got the parking the operator parking lot
And so I was like hey where'd you get that sticker from
She's like oh yeah, I could tell she's getting flushed and she's like my husband
In my head
Just like yotsie. This is my out and I'm like bro we can not do this we gotta go
I was like I am not doing it now I have a legit reason to not go through with this
So we take off we go back to buds and
Now I'm standing watch on on Monday morning and I get a phone call
I'm I'm standing watch at the quarter deck with another guy and I get a phone call from the
618 quarter deck so 618 is where the barracks are at so you have the buds quarter deck and you have the the barracks quarter deck
And it's it's one of the guys in my class and he's like hey, loasters
There's some marine here to see you
And it didn't even cross honestly didn't even cross my mind. You're in the Marines
Yeah, what am I what am I buddies is coming here to visit me? I was like that's awesome
I was like cool man, what's his name?
And he's like a bro what's your name? He's like he doesn't need to know my name
He slept with my wife and I was like what I was like I didn't sleep with his wife and I'm like bro tell him I could I could explain like nothing happened like
I didn't know she was married blah, blah, so I'm trying to explain and I like here is this guy in the background
Saying like I'm gonna kill this guy like I want to talk to him right now
And I'm like dude I'm on watch tell my my watch and when I get off at noon
I can talk to him and he's like no I want to talk to him right now
And then I'm like fine tell him to come up to the to the buds quarter deck and I can talk to him here
I guess tell him nothing happened like dude. I don't know what's going on in your marriage, but nothing happened
So then my buddy's like dude, he said it over there and he's he's big he's a huge dude. I'm like oh my god
So I'm sitting there and then another guy that I'm with he's like bro you have to tell the instructor
You have to tell the OD he's like there's no way you get no fire here on the quartet you're done
And the OD happens to be a first phase instructor that day
Yeah, so I'm just like oh my goodness so I'm like all right
So I go to the first phase office, you know, I ring the bell
I'm like you know, HM3M into here to see instructor so and so and the whole first phase staff is in there because this is in the daytime
Yeah, it's in the daytime
Yeah, this is morning
So I go in there and at that time all the instructor to buds were like enormous
They're all like six to enough just jacked out of their minds like I'm just swear they do it on purpose for intimidation factor
But at the time they were all enormous
So I go in there and they're like dropped her so I'm in the push-up position and my dress blues, you know, and then like what do you want?
I'm just like marines coming over to kick my ass
And they're like you just screw his old lady or something
I was like nobody thinks I did and they're like like who's this marine coming over here starts some shit like let's go there beat his ass
So the entire first phase staff's like yeah, let's go over there. So they all head over there to the quarter-deck
And at the time there's like some guys from like team five that were waiting there to to screen for another team and
Some of them knew each other so like, you know what's up with up?
I'm like oh, you know, so brain coming over here starts some shit. I'm like hell yeah, the beat is ass
So now I'm like yeah, come on over here, you know, and and so we're waiting and nothing happens and I'm like do you where is this guy?
And then the phone rings and my buddy from 618 he's like hey, bro
I heard what happened. I was totally messing with you
And I could literally my
The blood just like drained from my face and then the instructor's like is it him?
And I was just like I just I I didn't I couldn't speak so I just handed him the phone and then he's like
Disattractor so-and-so who is this? He's like oh, this is airmen so-and-so like where's the marine?
He's like it was a joke. He's like oh you got jokes
I got jokes too. He's like you and Mendez in your wetsuits two canteens on the grind
Good song. Oh yeah
We got beat
He ended up quitting shortly thereafter
Um
But there was no being the gray man
The only way you were the man. Oh, yeah, and it was just like from that point on I would be like where's Mendez does a matter hit the sir
All you pasture uniform detection that's great
It's surfing so yeah, so I was like all right. Well if I'm not gonna be the gray man just go balls out. I guess
I was well freaking legit
So you're not the gray man anymore and
You're going just going hard
Is there was any she having issues in boats? Yeah, I did
No, no, it's fun. Finds issues man. Yeah fine jeries. Yeah, you know during one of the surf passage
Evolutions I had one of the paddles come across and like break across my shin and so I had this huge bruise on my shin for a while and I was like you know
Whatever and I just kept going through training and at one point I realized that
When I would press down on my muscle it would just stay and my knee got really swollen. I could barely move it and I'm a
Corment so I know I'm like do these are like
Symptoms with compartments syndrome but I didn't want to say anything so I made it to the weekend
And I went back up to the to the recon battalion and I'm like hey guys like is this what I think it is?
And I like I think it is like do you need to go to the hospital?
So I was like well, I don't want to go to butks and I want to get dropped or rolled or whatever
So I check myself into camp penalty in hospital and then they're like
Dude you got to get this drain you either have to have surgery. You have to get this drained and I was like
Well, can we try draining it first and they're like yeah sure so they got this enormous needle
I mean it was thick too and they just started like draining the blood from there and they're like
Did you're not gonna be able to finish buds and whatever I was like no I'll be fine
So I go back to buds and then the instructors got word that I had checked into to medical up there in the light dude
We have a medical here
They're cool about it like I thought they were gonna be pissed but they were like hey, you know
They they liked me at that point
One phase was that first phase. Oh, this is before hell week. Dang them yeah before hell
So it was like the week before hell week and then they were like hey no big deal
We're just roll you to the next class
And I was like you know as it was extremely disappointing
So I got rolled and then I got rolled into two four five and then
though run
Before like the the last day before we started hell week on a run I stepped in a paw hole
Or I stepped in like you know holding the sand and I twisted my ankle
Really bad like that scene was enormously swollen and then
I was like no, it's fine like I'll go through hell week and you know I'll be fine
And they're like, dude you're not gonna be able to go through that and in my head I'm like this is twice now
There's no way they're keeping me and
The the proctor at the time
You know he's looking through my record. He's like
Dude you haven't failed a single evolution here like not a uniform inspection not a room inspection
And you know how they are over there. He's like not one I was like no
So you know I had attention detail from a my childhood
And be you know my time with the Marines like I had attention to detail and I could follow directions
I was like that was the one thing I could really do so they're like you know you haven't failed anything at all
They're like you know what we're gonna roll you one last time
And then you know last time I made it all the way through no issues so
And then where'd you end up going from there?
So you know you got jump school ask you tea
Alaska and then I was a corpsman so they sent me to
18 delta to
To go through the special operations medic course
Which is freaking long too. Yeah, it's a little over six months and if you go through the full course
It's like a year long
Did you go through the short course or the long course? Yeah, so I went through the short course
They asked me if I wanted to do the long course
And I said no I didn't want to do that
But before I headed out there you know I'd been dating the girl else telling about but and we actually ended up getting married before I went out there
And I did it because when I was going so I had just bought a house to
So I bought a house around that time in San Diego. We're not in San Diego isn't to make you look so many of you
You know and I was like oh look at this big ass house like a biotic a for cheap
You know back then it was you know that there and I didn't realize like how long that drive was
So
So I got married because I'm like hey, I really need the San Diego BH because I spoke to the admin lady at Buds and she's like yeah
You have a house in your marion and you have your hair you're gonna get San Diego BH and not North Carolina BH
Which is like
It's penny compared to San Diego so once again. Why did you get married want that be a
I did love her. I'm sure there's other
But yeah, so the reason I bring that up is because that was actually a sticking point when I was there
It was an issue because as I was going to the training I wasn't getting paid at all I was getting
Zero like you know money knows no behavior
Yeah, which is a big deal because now I got a mortgage and so I'm digging into my savings and I've been going you know, you know to the
To the cadre that were there. They have some seal cadre there's well
It's not like all army guys obviously they have the liaison's for friend of W
And
I you know I kept going up to them and tell them like yeah, I still haven't got paid
Still haven't got paid and they're just like, oh don't worry about it and like it'll happen like they just I just feel like they weren't concerned about it at all
And for being honest I wasn't a fan of theirs like I could just just didn't get a good feeling from them and
I'm really digging into my savings and now I'm running out of money and I don't know if you know Captain Smithers is
So he was the CO at Buds when we were there and obviously like they knew who I was because
What happened so you know him and I had chatted every now and then and he actually came out and did some jumps with us
And at what point during one of the jumps like you was sitting next to me
He was like hey, you know just so you know if you ever need anything reach out
You see where this is going
So I call Buds quarter deck and I'm like, you know Buds quarter deck and I'm like you can please transfer me to catch some others off of that
So I told him the story I'm like hey, I haven't got paid like these guys have totally blown me off
They haven't been helpful at all blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and he's pissed
He's like check so he has commander Zinky call me and commander Zinky calls me and then he's like that's that's unsat
That you've gone that long without getting paid so he calls over to the school
I get paid like two weeks later, but I get brought in and just shoot out by this senior chief and chief that are over there
And they're like you know, do you not understand how the chain of command works?
blah, I mean they were furious and they're like you know
We're gonna take you to a trident review board. We're gonna drive you down to Virginia Beach
And have a trident review board. I'm like these guys serious
So I go back home and I start calling like my recomb ladies. I'm like hey, is it cool if I come back?
I think they're gonna pull my trident and then they're like dude heck yeah, if you if you get dropped come on back
So you know I go in there and then
During one of the
The ass chewings that I'm getting I'm like you know what I'm like if you guys really take me to a trident review board
This is like what would you know?
We're consumed your cold camps. Me there's no like we're friends now again if you take me to try and review board I'll call them again
And they were like now they're like lost their mind
And then they're like you'll be hearing from us when it's time for your trident review board
And I just never heard from them. They left it alone and I got paid like two weeks later
They
Anything else from 18 delta?
Well, I was where I met Neil. I met Johnny Kim. Oh right on that little genius
Yeah, so he was in the class behind me
I met Johnny Kim. I was also roommates with a with the dober all right on he was my roommate
And Delta so it's pretty cool going through with him
Yeah, and then you those guys ended up coming to team three and you ended up coming to go in a team one
Yeah, so I actually was initially supposed to go to team three and
Then the corn in that went to team one for I for whatever reason he couldn't get a security clearance
So they're like hey, you're gonna go to team one now who's already started their work up and then you know
Dober was the first one to get orders to team three
So yeah, that's how I showed up team one. I think
2005 are you just fully amped to be
Yeah, just like beyond and the war's going on
On deployment
Yeah, you get thrown right into a platoon. Yeah, so I get thrown into the platoon
We start they've they've already started their work up
And it was everything that I was gonna be it was awesome the best job ever
I mean it really was I mean we would go to you know
Mississippi for training and do seek you see and then we would go to Kentucky for South and then we
You know around that time the PSD mission was gone so here we got to driving schools
So we would go to driving schools and it was just awesome like I
Loved being around the guys like it was it was everything I thought it would be it was it was pretty cool
We had some it's a mission in the platoon though
We went through three different chiefs
Dang yeah, so the leadership was a little bit of a dang of a problem and then I think the last chiefs that they brought in there
Like I don't think he was really into it. He was just like yeah, I'll do it, you know, oh
The crazy thing one of the crazy things I learned to trade at when I was working at trade at was
Look you're gonna you're gonna have some weak chiefs you're gonna have some weak officers
But if you have some good dudes in there, yeah, you'll just overcome all that you just overcome all of it and you'll fit you guys are the guys are gonna figure out
Often times the seal teams succeeds
Becuse of the lower because because of the leadership from somewhere in the platoon doesn't have to come from the OIC
It doesn't have to come from the chief now those guys can be bad enough that they actually
squash the junior leadership and that's when you have a platoon that just falls apart completely
But if the you know, I've seen OICs that were just completely getting carried by some two e-fives in the platoon
The OIC and the chief getting carried by two or three good e-fives
I've seen that all day long. I'm sure you did too
Yeah, but occasionally you'll get a chief for a OIC that
Look when they're great. That's great. We're all good
But it's occasionally they'll squash the junior leadership because their ego gets involved and then I want the you know
Someone else making calls and it just turns into a total disaster
The OIC wasn't very well acting
So you guys are getting do you guys know where you're going on the plymet? No because we're competing for four
We're going at the time and you know
I guess that unfortunately the leadership didn't build good relationships up the chain of command
So even though the platoon was awesome like we had some really talented people in that platoon really talented people in that platoon and
You know it is what it is that it just did build really we were not the favorite platoon and
It was around that time when there you know the OIC came up to me. It's like hey, you know
We're short snipers do you know you were a Marine you're gonna land that Bob odd you want to go
Do you want to go to sniper school and I said yeah
He's like two caveats he's like one it's Army sniper school and two you got to go to UAV school afterwards and I'm like yeah
Yeah, fine whatever just send me yeah, it's so weird how your mentality could be so
Unaligned with other people they're giving you these quote caveats. Yeah, bro when when we ended up going to Ramadi
We were supposed to go to Baghdad and task into bruiser and my
Commanding officer calls me in and he's like he's presenting this thing to me like it's the worst deal ever
And I'm like so happy. I'm trying I'm just poker face, you know like hey Roger that scrum should we can make some adjustments
And then I was like oh I can negotiate and I said well we're gonna need this
I'm gonna need some more people and some more like support and he was like yeah, we can take care of that totally hooked me up, bro
But I was like oh, are you serious you can send us to Ramadi instead?
Let's do this yeah, he was thrown caveat at me. I'm like yep
No, I'm really sorry. We're gonna send you to you. We're gonna send you to you. I'm like
Okay, you know I'm trying to hold my side
Yeah, yeah, let's do it. So yeah, so I ended up going to army sniper school and that was
That was cool going to army school and you know
It's pretty funny dealing with the army guy. So I had one point so they sent another guy with me
So they sent two of us to sniper school and we go out to a bar one night and we see some of the guys from our class
And at that you know at that point they were kind of standoffish because we were being quiet too
You know, we didn't really talk to people. They see us at the bar and they're like hey you guys are you guys are the seals in our class, right?
And we're like yeah, you guys is my wife by your shot
I was like yeah, let's do it
So I'm like cool. So they buy us a shot and I
Take this shot and it's the most disgusting thing I've ever tasted in my life like I want to throw up
And it's it's funny because I so I take the shot and they're like looking at us
And I want thanks guys even though inside I'm like what the hell was this?
So I said it down on my thanks fellas and they're like looking at like
Dang that's why they're maybe
So I guess they gave us like some gag shot that's both to like make you throw up
Yeah, and both of us were just like normal face all the time. Yeah, no expression like thanks fellas, but inside I'm like what
It was disgusting and then here just like
Dang that's why the baby's you just you see that they didn't even flinch
Anyway flinch and then
Yeah, and then we had another
We were back in
Back in and training and they were like oh you guys didn't load up in the truck fast enough for something like that
And they're like oh this one guy was like freaking out like guys if we don't do this fast enough we're gonna get beat
I'm like so what if we get beat like
Okay, and one of the instructors heard me
But he didn't know who I was so he was just like oh we got we got a tough guy the group
He's like all right he's like come on out
So he's like push-ups, you know, I'm doing push-ups. I don't push-ups and then he's like
Okay, flutter kicks and by the way like I
Used to do so many flutter kicks that I got tired accounting and I would literally set my timer for 10 minutes straight
And we just do flutter kicks for 10 minutes straight because I didn't want a count anymore
So he's having me do these flutter kicks and I could tell one of the other instructors like giggling behind it
Because the guy doesn't know why I mean like oh
Kind of good at these and then the instructor's like bro, you know, he's a seal right?
He's like
Dude, why didn't you tell me I'm over here like an idiot trying to break this guy. He's not gonna break
And then afterwards like he's like you want you want a dip
I'm just like no, I don't dip, but thank you
Yeah, so you end up going on a point and you go to go to a visit yeah pay calm to point
That's where you guys went right yeah, so
The majority of the platoon got sent to go on and then they were like hey if you're a
Uav pilot a sniper or a corpsman you're gonna go to the PI and I was all three three for three three for three
So that deployment was kind of weird for me because I wasn't with
My platoon for the majority of time like I was literally getting formed out to whoever needed me
So I went to Tau-Tau-A, Holy Oze and belong to those times where I got attached to like an ODA unit
Because they didn't have their 18 delta with them and
You know, I got attached to them and and there was a point there on the deployment where I got
I got sent home a ship
You know because that's how that I was getting transported for one place to another and at the time I had another
Oh, I see the way you said that you're like I got sent on a ship. Yeah. Well, that was like the one thing that I dreaded
You know as going on a ship. So this was like my first ship experience and I'm there with my my jail who
As a prior force recon gunny
You probably know who he is very tall dude. Yeah, it looks mean. Just tatted up
And so we're on this ship together and we we go to Chau and
I was like hey, sir, you know, this is where you and I part ways I got to go eat with the enlisted
You got to go to officers. He's like I'm not eating by myself. He's like you're coming with me
And we're wearing sterile camis so no name tapes no rank nothing so we go into the Chauhall with the officers and
So I'm sitting there and and you can tell like there's this this surface war for officer
He's looking at us because he sees he's might my jail. I mean he's tatted up. Yeah, no, we both don't look like officers
So he's he's looking at some finally gets he gets the courage come sit next
He's like so uh who are you guys and then he's like oh I'm lieutenant so and so and this is Lieutenant Mendez
I was like oh dang. I just got promoted for five to Lieutenant
So for like the rest of the deployment or sorry the the rest of the time on the ship
He's like calling me sir and whatnot and at one point
You know I'm getting off the heel with my sniper rifle because we're doing like some sniper stuff
I'm getting off the heel with my sniper rifle and the CEO knows who we are we're on his ship
And he was standing XCO and the CEO's like hey, HM2, do you might have all that?
Can you mind if I check out your your sniper rifle and you just see this guy's look he's just
She's steaming inside that he'd been calling me sir for like two weeks
He's like turns out I'm an HM2
HM2 man
Spot promoted that's like Andy Stomp spot promotes himself to whatever rank is required
And then you come back from that just roll into another petoon. Yeah, and how's that one girl?
It was awesome
I had a new OIC new chief new LPO
And
This OIC was was pretty awesome. He I remember when he first got there he set a meeting with me
And I'm thinking oh man, I'm in trouble like what's you know because up to that point
I had very little interaction with my I OIC very minimal
And I'm thinking dude I'm in trouble so I go in there and it kind of shocked me that he asked me like hey
So what you know what your family situation like like how are you doing?
Is there anything you need?
Where do you want to go with your career?
I was like the first time anybody had really asked me
I was like I don't know I'll just have him a great time being in a platoon
You know and he's like you know I noticed you don't have a college degree there's this program
Where you can get commission we send you away to school for three years and you come back as an officer
Is that something you'd be interested in?
I was like I'll actually you know I actually had never heard of that but yeah, it's interesting
I'll keep it in mind and you know I always say that this guy built a better relationship in the first two weeks with us
Then the prior OIC had built like in two years
So it's pretty cool he we tactically speaking he probably wasn't the best
But strategically he was he was great because he knew who his subject matter expert were he was a very humble guy
Leaned on them a lot and you know the same group was was together again and it was an awesome awesome workup
For me like I had a even better time in the first time because I'll be honest like I was I was disappointed the first time around
With leadership because I had been exposed to really good leadership with the Marines right I mean they were like
Just absolute professionals and then when I got to that first
Platoon you know it's a little disappointed so I'm like okay cool
So that's when I started realizing like okay leadership is you know
Ebson flows sometimes you get good ones sometimes you get bad ones and anything in between
The Velcro just like anything else when you go through was that when I was running trade it when you're going through that workup
I don't think you are there. Yeah. Yeah, I don't think you were there yet. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you know one thing I've always said is the
The Marines have like a tighter shot group or like a tighter standard so
Like if you have like the best you know the best seal between they're going to be freaking off the charts awesome
Yeah, and but the worst seal puttune is going to be off the charts shitty
And the Marine Corps has like a tighter more standardized group of like hey, this is what this is where they're going to be
They're going to fit in their better
Which is nice because you don't end up with those low points of leadership
And then we're doing up going on
On deployment so
Um, so before deployment actually they sent me to
To Central America for a while because they had they had us, you know a mission going down down there adjacent
Type mission they're like hey, does anybody speak fluent Spanish?
I was like I speak fluent Spanish so they sent me down there and so I was there for
For a while
I'll say it was long because they switched other people out like so they were there's like other guys would be go there for two weeks
or so, but I was there the entire time just because I was teaching all the classes and going out with them and stuff
So I did that first and then
We ended up getting
Remoddy
So like okay cool we're going back to we're going to Remoddy for a deployment and so I'm like finally
This is it and when did you show up there?
October
Let's see my son was born
July
So yeah September october timeframe okay, so I was home for like a couple months after my son was born
But it hit me a little doubt a lot by that time oh yeah a lot a lot yeah, yeah, yeah, so what was the deployment like
So it started off fantastic like when we got there
We hadn't been in country that long and I remember we got our first mission and
And
It was pretty cool because they're like hey, it's it's a little bit outside of Remoddy so we guys are going to take helo's there
So I'm the point man, you know I'm planning out the routes and stuff and I remember getting in the helo and
And looking around being like whoa, this is legit. Well, this is finally here like I've got my you know
I look around everybody's got their their nods on. We've got their weapons wearing the helo
And you know, it was a DA mission like
It's basically everything that you want to do and so you know we get dropped off a few clicks away
Patrol into the target and
I see some guards out there with with AKs and and it's the first time like
Like like literally first mission and I get to shoot someone right off the back. No, like this is awesome
So I'm thinking that that's the way things are you know because I go back to the base and I'm like
I got you know, I got to reload my mags
So I'm thinking this is going to be like a normal thing. I better go get some more ammo because you know if it's going to be like this all the
Plymouth and
And then we actually don't do anything for like a month
I'm just like a
We suck again
But then they're like hey listen there's there's work to be done but if you want to do it you got to go to the outskirts
So we actually ended up packing all our homies and going out to Tharthar and then from from there
We were at some small base and we're like living out of our homies, but but we were working
Which is what team guys want to do so it was true
I thought it was as great a plymet you know when I hear you talk about your your first one
That's kind of how I see this one you're doing DAs all the time. You know no one really got hurt
You know it was great so
And you get some good
Experts good to do those reps, man. Oh yeah, like you just
The whole cycle from the planning to the to the transit to the execution things aren't going quite right
But you get them sorted out like you just get good reps, man. Yeah. Yeah. Yep, and as a point man like it was it was a really good experience for me
As funny cuz like around that time
You know
My my OIC at one point we something changed in the plan and then he's like hey
We need to switch course or whatever. I'm like check. I was like let me get in my poncho and my red red lens
He's like what are you doing? Oh, like I need to look at my map
He's like how have you been navigating this whole time? I was like map and compass because in the Marines
That's how we did it
He's like you don't have a GPS and I'm like no
He's like if you're gonna be my point man
You need to know how to use a GPS
Because I'm like you know under my poncho my red lens like looking at my map and trying to figure it all out and then
And so I go back to camp and I'm
I bust out my GPS. It's still in the wrapper. Damn. It's still in the wrapper. So I'm reading the directions and when I
I'm reading the directions to this thing and
Then I'm like where is this thing been my whole life? Yeah
This is awesome
Damn that's crazy that was in 2007. Yeah, yeah, I don't know what's happening about the compass yeah
Because that's the way I had always done it in the Marines. We did eight on a land map and that's actually how I became the point man because one of the more experienced guys was like
Hey, bro, I don't know how to land have
He's like you know I land and this was like my first first up
Button
He's like hey, you're really good at land. That right you see with the Marines. Oh my god, pretty good
He's like won't be the point man. I was like heck yeah
So I'd be came point man, but no one knew that I was just going off my campus my compass and mountain
And they'll then and then when I discovered that GPS man game changer yeah, especially by that time because by that time in 2007
It was like one of the you'd have when you're wrist yeah
When you're wrist so that's what I had I had the little Garmin one
I mean it even goes on your wrist. I'm like this is amazing freaking ridiculous
And then I started carrying two of them around like one in here and one of my pocket
Just in case that one protect now
I really liked it so I'm like I don't want this thing breaking down on hey what up that story with the S vest
So there's a couple actually so the one
Um, then you know, we always talk about the complacency we had there was like a drone
That had
Watch some guys like planning some IDs in the road and then followed them back to their house and
They're like hey guys are gonna go hit this house like cool so our opportunity was tasked with hitting that house
And when our you know my pretend gets there they're like oh
It was kind of odd because there's just like an old man
Some women and children like it's kind of odd and you know as we're on target or whatever
We start finding some like propaganda
We start finding like some small stuff but nothing huge
And we'd been on target for I'm gonna say
At least like three four hours
So we were there for a while like we got pictures and guys like sitting on a couch and
And by the way, it's like a painful story to tell afterwards because you know
And you like to think that your professionals and it's definitely a slap in the face like whoa
It's really not over because it's leading up this like how many opposite you run at this point
We'd been there for a while so you so you were kind of we were in a good rhythm you were getting the reps
But the reps start becoming routine. Yep, and we were in the outskirts too. So like
This this house was out in the middle of nowhere. It's not like in Ramadi where it's like a very dynamic environment where everybody starts coming out and they know you're there
Um
So anyways, so we're doing SSC in one of our guys. So wait, so you hit this target. It's in the middle of vehicles
Yeah, yeah, so you drive vehicles up you hit the target now you've done this a bunch of times
You get the target cleared
No contact when you hit the target the people that you find on target is sort of the typical sort of people that you're gonna find
Old man couple women some kids
The house is looks like all the other houses look like so
In your mind you're probably thinking this is probably probably probably nothing here. Yeah, absolutely
And we had to add targets like that as well and you're there for three hours doing SSC
Yeah, because we started finding stuff so like guys actually had their helmet and they were like picks and shovels and stuff
Okay, like we're actually like breaking down some walls
We found some false walls and stuff and okay, so suspects so as your search and you're like, oh, this is some propaganda
We need to go a little harder. Yeah, now we go a little bit harder. We find more stuff. Yep, and so but at the same time there's been no
No
No bad guys, no, so you're just really just doing an Intel recovery at this point. Yeah, yeah, which means you're guys kind of chill
No, very much
Countess yeah
I actually have a picture of that, but so anyway, so one of our guys goes into one of the rooms and lifts a rug up and there's this
There's something on the floor that that's a little different color than the rest and you could tell it's kind of like a door or something
So he calls the EOD guy. Oh, so hey come check this out. You know make sure it's not booby trapped and he's like, no, we're good
And I think we're good. Let's open enough
So we open it up and there's there's a bunch of dudes down there. I think it was like 13 to 15 dudes down there and the first couple have like suicide vessel
guy Chuck's a grenade up it hits our EOD guy in the chest
They dive like behind some furniture the the grenade went low order
so
You want to talk about someone looking out for you that it was old, you know, so it didn't blow up to its full potential and
The avalanche call came out because they saw the S vessel on the dude so avalanche everybody runs out of the house and as the last dude runs out
You know our hombees are already
Ready to go and as soon as the last dude last man out it was like 50 cows like boobo boobo and we don't know if like a 50 cow
Hit someone's vest or if the dude clocked himself off, but the house blew up
The house blew up and
Some of the guys were we're still alive. I guess that we're still under even that even after that explosion
So guys are coming up some guys left their helmets and nods inside the house
So some guys got no nons. I think a couple weapons were left in there as well
Yeah, as a matter of fact I'll tell you that some of the stuff we recovered afterwards, but anyways, so yeah, we're laying down fire and
And at one point a rocket is shot and it hits like five feet from our humby
So we're like hey, we need to back out and we need to drop air on this thing
So we'd back out we drop air on it and actually drop the couple bombs on it and then
You know afterwards when we go and recover stuff you could tell that these these guys that that were there they weren't
They were there were foreign fighters. They were different than some of the other guys that we had come across
But we recovered some of the nods that we left in there. We recovered
One of the weapons that we had left in there and it's crazy because I guess one of them must have picked the weapon up like our
Rm4 and started shooting with that m4 and when we picked up that m4 at the front of the barrel
You can tell that the 50 cow round had gone through the front of the barrel
Pay you out the back blew this guys head off and then we found this guys head like 50 yards down
Down the road, but I was crazy. So I mean, you know, we have a picture of the gun like with a 50 cow
So doing that report on all the lost stuff
That's things were you the LPO of this put to oh no no, I'll just say just the door kicker. Yeah. Oh, that's right
You said you were the point man. Yeah, I love being a point man
So that gets your that that snaps you back into reality. Yep. Yep
So
Yeah
It's completely you said there was a couple S best stories
Yeah, so the other one was I guess they were
They were smuggling some S best in I forget from where it was you know when you're young
You don't pay attention to some of the details that are passed on but they were they were importing some S best
And at one point that the Iraqi police pulled this guy over who they thought could be one of those guys that was smuggling S best
So we take the vehicle and we we rip it apart completely and behind the glow compartment
We find an S best and so our UD guys take it out and then they're like hey
Let's make it a nerd and let's put it back and let's see where he goes and then we'll catch him and his friend
So they do that they make you know, they they make the the best and we put it back
We give the car back to the Iraqi police at that point. You don't know who's you know who's who?
They're all corrupt, you know, there's people that had infiltrated
All forms of government police so we didn't tell him what we found or just like hey, we're good
So they're like okay cool. So they let the guy go and of course he goes back to his house
And at this point now we're being mandated to bring you know the Iraqis with us because for a while
There are from where I could remember we were by ourselves
Like just us but this point like okay, so anyway, so we end up hitting this house and
Well boy has his best on and he's like trying to clock himself off all but it's inert
That's all and he had actually two switches like he had a primary in a secondary
So you know he's yelling out you know like boy and he's like click and he's like oh crap and he's a click
Trying to do the other one and
How's that working out for you homey?
He's got no head
It's stuff man and no one got hurt on that freaking though where the
Spider-Hole was huh? No damn
It's like I said that's about it's good to play as you could do a lot of work and no one got hurt
You get done with that and then is that when you come to trade it?
Yeah, so I come back and they're like hey, you're gonna have to go trade it and I'm like I don't want to go to trade it
You know are you and he's six now? I'm in he's six. Yeah. Yeah, yeah
I just made he's six on that and women actually
so
You know I come back home. I'm I'm having some personal issues
You know with with my wife at the time and
You know and instead of trying to work things out and be a good husband
Which you know I look back on I could have done a much much better job of you know
I look back at that marriage. I'm like hey, you know that's 100% my fault. I wasn't a very empathetic person
Marriage is tough thing and it's even tougher when you're young and you know
It's even tougher when you married a team guy who's gone all the time and I didn't think about that
You know, I'm just like you know she moved right from a parent house to me
And I'm just like I don't understand what you're complaining about
Anyways, there's a lot of tension between her and she served me divorce papers and
Instead of you know trying to take a knee and work things out. What do I do?
They're like hey, oh there's corn and needed for this. I've got a stand-to-plyment and I'm like I'll go
So I end up volunteering for for a very short augment
Before I go to trade it and then you would add him want to go to trade it so they were like hey
You've got some time here a team one before you check into trade it cool that was kind of like
You know my give me so there I cool go do that and so I come back from that deployment and then that's when I I check in the trade it and
That's why I meet JP Denil
And
Did you go straight into
Straight into south straight into CQC?
Yeah, so back then the the the senior enlisted of the assault cell he would like interview guys
To go to assaults because he was like hey if you're gonna come to assaults like we're screening
And so I remember him coming up talked to me while I was still a team one
I just got back from deployment so like yeah, you're going you're going to assaults
So I ended up going to south
But you know
Being the team guy I was like I can go to CQC to like yeah, sure you know, yeah, so I was doing CQC trips south trips and it was it was pretty cool and
You were there. That's when you were there and then JP was the OPO at the time. Yep. Yep. Yeah
What did you learn in sitting there teaching?
You know, so now looking back I always told people that trade it was actually the biggest
Learning experience that I ever had because it's like the ultimate leadership lab
Because you get to watch two different styles of leadership go through and you're you're to completely detach
You have zero emotion and invested into that whatsoever
So you can armchair quarterback that stuff all day long
And
It was where you know, I started realizing the the difference in leadership
Hmm because if you think about it the talent is for the most part
Is it right out pretty evenly? You're gonna have some good some good guys
You can have a handful of new guys. You're gonna have some
E5 pipe hitters you're gonna have some couple slugs like the boys are gonna be pretty consistent
Most of the time yep. You're gonna get that so yeah, it all it all boils down to just how was the leadership?
How good is the leadership and if leadership good?
Between's gonna rock and if the leadership sucks
We could have some problems yep, so that's when I started seeing that you know
Yeah, training is the same and I was like, okay
It really depends on that leadership how they're gonna do and it was really cool to see like the leadership that did well
It was simply because they were humble like you could just tell their attitude right off the bat
Like they're like you know when you give them you know criticism or critiques or whatever
They're like got it got it whereas the platoons that did terrible
They were just like you could just tell they had attitudes about hearing anything that any feedback that you had to give them and it was very
Blame like the difference between the the platoons that had humble leadership and the platoons that just did not
I would like take this to the end degree in my own head because I always wanted to make sure that
Hey, what am I doing am I doing a good job of getting through this individual leader, right?
And if it seems like this leader like maybe they have a big ego and they think they're a badass
You know, I don't care I always wanted to make sure that it wasn't me that it wasn't my end
I was like okay, you know what the guy's got a big ego. That's okay
We want guys with big ego. So like you got to have a big ego. Let me rephrase that there's nothing you can't expect seals to not have
Some kind of ego like hey, I know how to do this some level of confidence, right?
You like so it's okay. I get it. You know you you think you're badass cool
I don't want to work for someone that doesn't think they're a badass right cool. I'm good with it. Okay. Let's move forward that
But man
You'd get these guys that occasionally again most most of the most of the leaders are like cool
That weren't we're down a cage. Now remember I remember once I we had this one leader coming through south
and
I talked to our
civilian that worked there who is a prior you know seal he was actually my
My TUSCA when I was doing commander and I said hey, bro man
Just can you do me favor just check me on this like just look at this guy's face when I'm putting out word and just give me
I go cuz it seems to me
Like it doesn't want to hear anything from anybody
I just want to make sure I'm not totally off base, but can you just check him out and so sure enough like as I
As I'm talking you look I've used that with his arms crossed and and and I get I'm just saying
I'm not even like saying do you're totally jacked up? I'm not saying anything like that
I'd say something like hey man, do you ever think about maybe you know putting some vehicles over here on this target and you can see the guys like arms
Car I'm not I'm just offering the suggestion
You know and they do arm costs and yeah, we get done with that debrief and that civilian comes up to me
And he's like bro this guy's freaking crazy and I said okay. I just wanted to make sure because it just
I guess the reason I'm saying this is because like I's intrigued at
That
The guys in trade at the attitude of our guys in trade at was just to try and help out our friends that are in the team
It's like that arena of puttune that that was the attitude the attitude. There's no like hey
I know how to do this you don't there was no
Matter of fact I wouldn't allow that kind of shit if we had instructors like that
I would freaking pull them aside because our instructors realize like oh
Where these guys are our friends there are teammates they're getting ready to deploy
We did do our best to help them out yeah, and and a lot of those guys know as much as what we know
Right, so you got a guy that's got a bunch of experience. I'm gonna bunch of deployments
They know as much as we know so cool. We're not attacking them. We're not talking down to them
So my point is if you have your friends that are trying to help you and
You reject them. It's really really bad. It's really really bad
It's it's horrible actually and if you such a bummer to see me it'd be such a bummer to see
Cuz literally like every guy at trade-at was just hey these are my friends and I'm trying to help and
If why aren't you open to us helping you please like we don't want you to get hurt man so
Yeah good times this freaking um
Great place to learn yeah, and I was like I did that luckily when I was at sealed team one as a
E5 I worked in our training cell which is when the the team she's trained themselves and so I got to do the same thing
When I was young and that's where I learned the most of my stuff was doing that again
Sitting back detached watching guys go through potunes
We used to run the SQT classes in at the team. Yeah, so that was really eye-opening too because now you had the young officers and
And
You'd watch them and think this guy can't make any decision. Why can't you make any decisions?
Oh, it's cuz he's shooting his right weapon right now and he shouldn't be given the two by four
Give him a stick let him get off his gun and he'll figure it out and then you actually learn how to do that for yourself
So yeah, if you want it really want to learn something
It's really advantageous to have an opportunity to teach it as well. Yeah, that was also where I learned how to like breathe and
Not I wouldn't say public speak, but you know like when you're talking to team guys
Yeah, you better be square away. Yeah, because they are
Chomping at the bit. Oh, yeah to like sense any weakness or anything that you say that's maybe not
Tactically correct. So it's where I learned to be very deliberate about the way I spoke
Public a debriefed. Yeah, and if you don't have if you don't have anything that's smart to say
Don't say anything and if you have a thought
That you haven't fought through either think through it or presented in such a way that
It's not like an aggressive attack
That's absolutely true. You know you're no seal-platoon. You don't have to be in trade it. You're no seal-platoon and you disagree with someone else
What are the chances that you're 100% right? Yeah, the chance that you're 100% right are almost zero
So eventually probably two weeks into my first platoon I realized oh
I'm very seldom going to be a hundred percent right. Why don't I present ideas as if there an idea?
Not some
Perfectly formulated perfectly constructed notion that is 100% true because there's so few things that are like that
Yeah
Even the most like I talk about in leadership strategy and tactics
The OIC that I had that was awesome. He knew more than all of us combined and he would present ideas as if they were
Suggestions and ideas and he was always open to changing those ideas if somebody said something smarter
So you get to see that stuff over and over again. That's what's that's what's crazy though
You when you're working at trade-out as you see a platoon tonight
Do three four five runs another platoon do three four five runs and then a few weeks later
You're gonna see two other platoons with a bunch of different leadership do the same runs basically the same runs with the same people
And the variable is the leadership and then a few weeks after that you get to do it again and again and again and again
And you just start to see what works and what doesn't work and it's real obvious after a certain point
Yeah, my learning curve was very steep there. How long did you do it trade up?
So let's see I got there in 2008
and I think around
2010 or so it was it was like my time to rotate out, but we had gotten a new chief in and
And
So it's time for me to go to my LPO, but the new chief that came in I really liked him a lot
Just just awesome awesome guy and then he was just like hey, can you stay at trade it a little bit longer and then be my
LPO when it's my time to go because I'm not gonna be very long. Yeah, he's like I want you to be my LPO
I'm just like do you know I want to deploy man?
I thought it's a long time. He's like okay, how about I send you on another argument?
I'm like I want the full one this time
So we're working hard hanging here. I was like I want a full deployment. He's like, okay, you got it
So I went back to Afghanistan
for another augment
It's part of the deal size and you're getting some good operational experience on your augments
Oh yeah, yeah, absolutely live in the dream. Yeah, it was it was really cool
Just to see you know watch a different team do do different things and yeah, I learned a lot
I learned a lot from
It was the first time to where I kind of heard the T.L. like during a gun fight like just how calm and collected they were
It was just like as if nothing was happening and I didn't I remember that thinking about that in my head like I want to be like that
You know like okay cool. That's how I'm supposed to be
You know, so yeah, it was a really good experience again
And because you know my skin tone I was able to help them out in ways that
You know, maybe some of the other guys couldn't so some of the targets had to be done like during the daytime
So we had to like drive around and like milk trucks or something and because you know, I could fit in with the popular side just getting and like the passenger seat and be the navigation guy
So you're back to being a point man. Yeah, but drive into a local you know hoppyless and you're able to pull that off
Yeah, and that's also because yeah, so halfway through the deployment though. Okay, we need we need low's back
Like it assaults and then I was like hey, they want me back and then the team leader there was like let me call them
It's like actually we really need him over here. So they let me stay there. It's pretty beautiful. Yeah
But you end up did you end up did you end up then going with your chief in trade at to be his LPO
No, so around that time
They sent Johnny Kim over to assaults like just very temporarily because he was on his way to go to school
So he got picked up for this this program where the Navy picks like two people at the entire Navy and they sent him to go get some of our
Somehow Johnny Kim slipped through the crash
Yeah, right so he's like explaining this this program to me
Were basically you know that the Navy pays for you to go to med school afterwards and it sounded like a good deal and at the time
You know, I was feeling really guilty
I'm like the I'm just been gone a lot
And I was like feeling like I wasn't like the best father to my son even though I tried to spend as much time with him as possible
I always had that guilt and then there's a part of me
I was like you know what maybe I should get like a normal job and and be there for my son
So on a complete win like I put in my package for that exact same program
And I'm like dude if Johnny Kim is getting accepted to this thing the chances of me getting accepted are like slimmed and none
And so I'm getting ready to go back to a team with with that chief to go be as LPO and then I'm flying back from an assault trip
And then he's like hey, did you see the result? I'm like for what like I literally completely just I applied and just forgot about it
And I dude you got picked up for that program
Oh my god, are you serious? He's like yeah, so I was like well, I guess get some going to school
Crazy go try a big doctor. There was a time period and it was this this was the time period where I'm not kidding seals had a really good reputation in the world
You know and it certainly in the Navy and I man guys were getting picked up left right and center for this kind of stuff
So I mean that's freaking crazy and awesome. Yeah, so what's funny is you know that I said they picked two people a year at the entire Navy and the other guy was a team guy too
Yeah, that's my point like that's crazy right. Yeah, but at that time and we like the seals were just doing a lot of good work and I mean I'm sure that when they looked at your record like seriously they looked at your record and
Compare that to the other applicants I bet it wasn't even really that close just because of the nature of what the seals were doing at the time. Yeah
So but did you have any intention of like going to medical school for however long that is so I thought I did
You know
So you a year behind Johnny yeah, okay, you're you're you're behind Johnny and Johnny went to USD
So I was just because I'm like yeah, I'm just gonna do what Johnny did so
So for we had to go to like that officer school it up in Rhode Island so yeah and
January of 2012 that's when I left trade it and we went to Rhode Island and
So you learn how to be an officer. Do you get commissioned up there?
No, you just go to school. Yeah, you just go to school. You don't get commissioned into you graduate from school
But that's actually where like you know, they're like oh you got to have blue camis. I'm like I don't own any blue camis
And what's funny about that so I didn't know so they have the you know the big blue jackets and those things are expensive
Like 350 bucks and I'm already buying all these uniforms that I didn't have because I don't have any blue stuff
And either you're gonna go to ROTC
Yeah, what you're gonna have to do yeah after work, but you don't have to wear blue camis for the knife and force cool up in Rhode Island correct
God it so my but the other team guy that they're with me, you know, we go there and he's he's cheap to
So he's like oh by this jackass like I don't want by either. I was like screw it. Let's not buy it
You know, you know jacket you know even though it's Rhode Island in January
So we form up. Yeah, we form up and I'm in my blue camis
He's on blue camis and you know the chief the chief who's like the RDC or whatever it's called, you know
He's like oh how come you guys don't have jackets? I was like well
We know we didn't want to buy them because we're literally gonna have them here when never gonna use them again
And they're really expensive
He's like well, we're all uniformed around here
So they make everybody take their jackets off and it's it's freezing cool and then
He's like we'll keep doing this until you guys buy jackets and I told my buddy
Don't you dare buy a jacket?
It's like okay cool and we were freezing cold, but we would just sit there and be like we're not cold
But we were we're dying
And got to the point where they're like you know people started crying in the class like literally like oh
You know freezing cold, so they're like all right changing to your cackies
I was like okay, I'll buy the jacket for the cackies come part. I might use that later on
So you're done with that and then you go to you go to you list usd
University of San Diego you're gonna be doing the same
Whatever the same thing Johnny did yeah trying to get your pre-med knocked out
Yeah, how'd that go for you?
Not well
Johnny Kim
I'm miserable, you know, I'm I'm taken like 18 to 21 units a semester
I
Really didn't enjoy the classes I was taking like chemistry biology just stuff that was so boring to me
And then a top at all off. I'm I'm doing parking services because you know USD's a private school
And the Navy only pays like I think it was like I don't I shouldn't say only they pay 10k
And the tuition at USD's like 40k a year like 40 something k a year so
They're like hey if you do parking services it'll pay off the rest of your tuition
So it's a good deal like if you really break it down
The amount of hours that you work
It's a really good deal so I'm driving around this this car giving people tickets at USD and bad karma dude
Yeah, well, I almost you know almost gotten to this big altercation at one point so
You know that so this other team guy you're the worst ticket guy to mess with
Fatsin that you think you're getting a thing you know already with some random ticket do you know it's freaking loves
Prop
Well, it's you know it's funny it's like if I have to hear you know
Do you know my dad is one more time just like bro? I don't know your dad is I'm really sorry, but you know you're parking the handicaps box
but at one point
So the parking so it's me and another team guy so that the other parking services kids, you know
They actually they're normal kids. I won't go on a school and I like oh if you guys want to get a lot of tickets
You got to go down to this area right here and it was like where the football field or the baseball field was you know by the gym
You went to USD right?
You know what I'm talking about so my buddy. I didn't do ticket parking
I said I said put my bike in my station wagon and just I would park off campus and just bike whatever
Need me bike on bike back in my car and drive home. Yeah, so at one point, you know
I we go down there and it's like it's like the jackpot of all
Like violations like we got because we were having trouble meeting our quota so this other team guy
And I you know the other parking service kids like if you go down in this area you get lots of tickets
So we go down there and we're like oh heck yeah, yeah, there's all kinds of violations down there
Like we met our quota super quick and at one point I had come up to this car and I you know
You got to punch in the license plate to to give him the ticket and it was like
Do not let like call the office immediately if you see if you get this license plate
Everyone okay, yeah, so I call it. I'm like hey this thing came up on my little gadget and then I do not let that person leave
They have like nine unpaid tickets or something like that. I was insane about I'm like what do you want me to do?
Like park your cart behind his car until the tow truck gets there and do not let them leave
I'm like is that legal are we allowed to do that and and and they're like yeah
So I'm like okay, so I parked my park my cart behind this car the other team guy
I don't know where he took off to like he's gone
He must have been fine and like lots of tickets and so I'm sitting there and waiting for the tow truck and now
I see everybody get out of football practice and
The guys car the car who's you know
Part behind the owner comes and it's a really big dude
You know he's free of football player free jack dude big dude. He's like
Hey, you need to move your cart
I was like hey bro there seems to be a problem like you know with your ticket stuff
I'm like they called the tow truck but I think if you call them, you know and work something out
He's like
Move your fucking car. I was like I can't you know they told me this and and now it's starting to be cut
And I'm really like trying to be like hey bro like listen
I am like the low man on the total pull and now the rest of the football team is coming out
And now they're getting fired up and now I'm sitting there and I'm like where the hell is this other team guy at
This is a matter how good of a fighter you are there's a punch of that. We're gonna get trash kicked
So and then the guys like move your cart now. I'm gonna beat your ass
Now I'm like listen bro. I really don't want that but listen if you put your hands on me
I'm telling right now. I'm gonna defend myself and
At that point I'm thinking dang it man. This is really gonna happen and
Some guy comes running through them all and then he's like hey
Do you know who this guy is?
And I'm like who is this guy and yeah, who am I like who is this guy? I am
You know and then he's like he's freaking maybe seal and then you just see their attitude
Come pully please like oh I'm really sorry sir like I didn't know you know
I and I was like hey bro. It's really cool like you know
I'm pretty sure if you just call you can work something out
Turns out this guy was the running back was a prior team guy. Oh no sure and he knew that the parking service is guys
We're other team guys that we're trying to you know pay for the rest of their tuition so he saved me that day because I'm probably wasn't gonna go down very pretty for me
And then you eventually just change to change your major and you get out of the medical program
Yeah, so at some point I'm just like I took a finance class as one of my
Electives and I'm like man I really like this and I really miss the teams
I don't think I want to do this medical thing so I change my major without telling anybody and
Then when they're like oh, so where are you gonna go to med school? I was like about that
I'm actually I want to go back to the teams if that's okay
So I want to finish my degree and go back to the teams and they were a live it
Damn they're just like teams like no you're you're going slow you're gonna go be a surface work
Oh my god, so now I'm just like
I don't know what to do so you know I make some phone calls and they're like that's stupid
You're not gonna go be a slow you're turning back here
The only the only problem is you're gonna have to go to the process just like everyone else
So I have to take the screener do an interview
I'm like yeah, that's totally fine. So I do the screener
I go do the interview and one of the interviewers is one of my old co from team one and he knows who I am
So I'm thinking oh this is gonna go great, you know and at one point he asks me
He's like hey, so what are you gonna do if you don't get picked up for for special warfare
And then um as an officer, you know and I sound was like well
I am just gonna give up my commission and go back to being and listen
And you just see everyone's head just go oh
And then that moment just seen the expression on their faces. I was like oh man
I said something I wasn't supposed to
And you know
Because you're supposed to say hey, I want to be an officer no matter what and
And he was really cool about it. He's like listen, low, you know, you know why I mean it's like I'm gonna give you one more chance at this
Okay, I'm gonna give you another crack at it
I wasn't the best answer
And then I sat there and I'm like
Dang it. I might have messed this up
So I sat there for a minute and just thought about it and I'm like you know what sir?
I know that the correct answer that you want to hear is like
If you don't get picked up for this
I'm gonna go be the best swore the best sub-mariner officer on the planet and then I'm gonna make my way back
But I'll be honest with you. I don't want to do that. I was like I just want to be in the teams and
Whether that says an IPO achieve or is an officer. I was like that's why I'm doing this
I miss the teams. I want to go back and he's like that's the answer you want to go with
I'm like yes, sir. It's just the truth
And then he's like to bold move
Don't know if it's gonna work out for you
I like that but yeah eventually I got picked up so
Back to the teams
So where'd you go? What team so I was originally supposed to go to team five and
That old chief that I was talking about the one why me be his opio and then the master chief who was the SCA
Assaults there they're like hey because they came to my commissioning like we're going
I was like oh I'm going to team five though like no, you're not
You're coming to team three boom and I was like whoa, you know and they're like trust me
We'll make it work so some trades were made
Like they gave up a couple of their jails and I'm to five and whoever the jail one of the jails was in the pollton because they had already started work up
Base sent this poor kid away and he started work up
So now I go in there and I'm there with all my buddies
Like I knew the LPO I was at assaults with the LPO the chief. This is your platoon that you could put into you're the aOS
They watchy yeah, and you just they're all your boys all my friends from LPO on up
Yeah, I didn't know everybody else you know down there but I
Then cool good it was awesome. Yeah, the OIC
So they put me in that platoon because they were like hey the OIC
You know, he's a really good dude. He's just a little
They used the word timid. He's just kind of shy
He wasn't a very outspoken guy and then when I heard him brief and I heard him on the radio
I'm like oh, I see where's like I have no problem getting on the radio
I've no problem briefing
So we actually complement each other very well because he was a good officer like he knew officer things that I did not
So he showed me how to be you know like ground force commander. He showed me like all the checklists all the procedures and
And yeah, it was it was a good experience and I got a lot of reps
You know being the OIC because I was I was good on the radio
So I got a lot of reps and our our chief was a complete stud who I'd went to Buds with
So I learned a ton from him too. He's a J-Taxle. He taught me a lot about being ground force commander
Where did you guys go into plunder we ended up going to
Alta Cateum
Yeah
So we were there for the double a just advised an assist
So there was no a company at that time
So we were just behind the flaw just calling in helping them
I rack his call in air to try to retake Alambar which had been retaken by bicell
You know whatever the name of the week was for them yeah
And that's
How's the platoon what is the platoon doing as you're doing that?
I mean so really the only ones that are working are the J-Taxle
Yeah, they're really the only ones that are working
But I mean at least you're freaking killing bad guys
Yeah, absolutely
But we're also eating motors a lot because we can't go forward
So we're just sitting back there eating motors and at one point
The motors got really really close to us blue one of our homies up
As I was running towards it this homie gets hit just
Close me on my ass
So just definitely a TBI
So they like put me on TBI protocol for a little bit but
But
Right around that time I get an email telling me like hey
From this chief of mine now he's the SEA now
He's the SEA at this point. He's like hey, los you're you know we're gonna actually send you to Baghdad
And you're gonna replace this J-O is the strike so commander
I'm thinking like why like I don't know anything about J-Taxle stuff and the J-O that was there
He'd actually gone to like a J-Taxle
Really really intelligent guy like super intelligent waste smarter than me and I'm like what am I gonna do over there?
I don't know anything about
You know, and he's like and so it's funny because
As I'm getting on the Hilo to leave he's getting there and we're crossing paths and I'm like bro
Why am I getting sent there like I don't know what I'm doing he's like don't worry about it dude people like you
I'm just like okay
He's like you're gonna be fine
So I know it gets a Baghdad and and I
I'm getting the turnover from this J-O and I could immediately see
That these gent the general there is just not a fan of ours and then through conversation
We had we had we had burned some relationships there
And backtracking though when I checked into team three guess who my CEO is
It's my first OIC
Right on man and you want to talk about like a lack of relationship building
When I show up he was just like hey you're that guy that got in trouble for such and such thing
Right on and I'm like you can awesome no
I'm like that wasn't me that was someone else who doesn't even look like me like he's a white dude
Like it's nothing like me
So I'm like way to go man we spent two years together and you're in a who I am
That's great
Yeah, but anyway, so back to the story the the relationship had definitely been
Strange I could just tell by the way this this general was talking to the J-O
It's just like
He did not like us and
You know like I said this J-O was very brilliant really knew his J-Tax stuff and so now I'm left there
And I'm thinking like man we got a repair this relationship
So that's actually the first thing I started doing the general was a Marine Corps general
And so I was just chatting him up just like hey, you know where we're station where you station now
He's like oh camp penulton
I'm like oh that was my first duty station
He's like what are you doing there? I was like oh he's the B&F MF Corment and yeah his eyes just light up
And from that point on you know him and I just start chatting and then I you know start asking him like hey, you know
What is it that you guys are looking for when you're looking for these for these strikes to be approved?
What can we do to help out what you guys are doing?
He's like as a matter of fact, you know we need this this and that and I'm like check let me see what we can do about it
And so what my job was
Was I would get all these air strikes for the next day
That my platoon wanted to carry out strategically strategic air strikes and I had to brief them to
To him and another general to the one and a two-star general get him approved in a room full of kernels that were all
Jags and super risk adverse like they were
Denying a lot of the air strikes and that's the reason why I said me over there like hey a lot of our stuff's getting denied go see if maybe you can change that up
So so I go in there and and I grab one of my TATX
You know this is actually of where I had like what another epiphany where I'm like you know what is a leader?
I don't have to know everything. I'm like I have someone who went to J-Tax school
So I'm just gonna lean on them because at the time I'm like I don't know what I'm doing
I was really like insecure about it like I'm gonna go in there and just not know what to brief
So I told him I'm like hey listen
I'm gonna brief strategic picture like why we're doing these air strikes anything technical you can answer it
And he was like check so that's how I would do my briefs and like I said I built that relationship with that general
So every time I briefed you know and they went around the corner taking the vote he would always take my side and once he was in
The two-star was gonna be in as well no matter what the Jack said
So from that point on
From I could remember we got all our air strikes approved from that point on
It was just a simple
Relationship building what what had the J-O the smart J-O
Was it something he did or was it just he was not
How something are you doing?
So just how to bad relationship out of the gate. Yeah, yeah, and then he had a bad taste in his mouth
I think team guys on that particular deployment
He made some some comments here and there that I caught on very quickly like check
Freakin horrible and you're did are you married again at this point?
Yeah, so
So yeah, so when I was in trade it I actually met my wife she was my waitress
a very a classy establishment
Jack called butters
But I went in there with a team guy and I remember seeing her and I'm thinking like oh my god
She's gorgeous like there's absolutely no way someone like that would you know go for someone like me and
And turns out that I had gone a couple dates with one of her friends
So she had told so she told her friend she's like oh, you know I saw that that guy
He said at my table that you were dating. She's like oh, we're not dating anymore
She was like do you care if I get his number? She's like no, so yeah, so that's how he ended up meeting and
So at this point, you know, we've been together for a while since trade it and now I was already you know
Am I OIC and she's just like hey you need to marry me if you don't marry me before this deployment
And I'm not gonna be here when you get back
So ultimately I'm delivered
And and it you know is a hard decision for me because I was like man I love this woman but we you know
Vodalot and during that deployment that one to Tyrak our relationship was very very stressed
You had just got married before you went on the pool yeah, yeah, yeah, and I'm thinking to myself like you know
I'm gonna fail at this marriage thing again like what am I what what am I doing wrong here
And what's crazy is like when I was at trade at you know you talked about the the four laws of combat a lot and we talked about like
Find what your red flags are and in the teams my red flag when I got overwhelmed was
You know when that thought came in my head like I don't know what to do right now. That was my cue to detach
Prioritize an excuse and
For the longest time I thought that these four laws of combat this this ocean was only
Combat related and it was the first time in my life where I realized that
It's for your personal life too because at that point, you know I got back from the poiment
We're still fighting a lot, but I'm like man. I love this woman. I don't want I don't want to fail at this marriage thing again
And in my head I thought I don't know what to do right now
And that's when I clicked for me like wait a minute
I've had this thought like literally hundreds of times when I'm on training missions
I'm like well I'm a little overwhelmed. I don't know what to do right now detach prioritize execute and so at that point
I'm like I need to attach prioritize an excuse in my personal life and it was at that point in my life
Why decided to start taking ownership of of my mistakes and realize that you know what?
I'm an imperfect human being too and I stopped concentrating on
Everything that I thought was a flaw
On her part and just started concentrating on how I could become a better husband
So I'm like hey, you know what this is what I do wrong and this is how I can fix it
I have no control over attitude. I have no the things that I had don't have control over
I stopped worrying about them and I started concentrating on the things that I could control
And at first it was a little bit of a campaign because you could tell she was like what are you doing?
And then and then it got to the point where she started doing the same thing
Like we just started taking ownership of our parts of the marriage and I stopped worrying about what she did wrong
And only worried about what I was doing wrong and she eventually she started to do the same and her marriage is
Completely turned around since then and you know, I'm a little marriage you got peaks and valleys, but it's it's been
Amazing
Kind of like when you're in a platoon like where everybody's taking ownership of stuff for no one's blaming anybody else
Which is trying to solve problems. And that's how that environment finally was in my marriage
So yeah, it's
It's funny when you talk about like when you're in a platoon and everyone starts taking ownership stuff
You know problems get solved
What's crazy is the opposite of that?
It's not one level of badness when people aren't taking ownership because when they're not taking ownership
They're blaming each other so it's not just oh we're gonna blame each other and that's that's not good
That's not good, but guess what else is coming now? We're fighting where yelling each other like it causes
Exponential problems beyond just it's not just oh if I take ownership the problems get solved if I don't take ownership
The problems don't get solved if it was that simple it'd be like you probably deal with it
But it's now we actually are fighting we're undermining each other we're yelling at each other
We we're turning to freaking idiots and so yeah, and that can happen in people's personal lives, too
You know you it's not just that oh well we've got this problem in our marriage and it's not my fault
It's your fault if that's where it stopped
You might be able to muddle you away through it, but that's not where it stops. Yeah, it stopped me say it's your fault
What do you mean is my fault?
Actually here's some of the nine things that are your fault and but all of a sudden we have not just one little problem
That's not getting solved you have exponential
Problems across the board it's a freaking disaster. Yeah, it's a game changer
um
Now you came back from that deployment and
You actually did a couple years where you were doing some some classified stuff
overseas and
Obviously we can't talk about things that are classified
But maybe some unclassified lessons learned from what you were doing yeah
I think the biggest thing that I learned while I was over there is is how to build relationships
Hmm and honestly I got I got really into it and I started trying to perfect that craft by reading books
So I started reading books like how to win friends and influence people
The like switch like anything I could help get my hands on because I knew that when I was over there
It was just gonna be me and one other operator
That's it we didn't have like a support system we didn't have a platoon that was that was us
So we had to build a good relationship with like the local populist in a very short amount of time
Um, we had to build a relationship with our interpreter
And that's really honestly when it boils onto it our lives dependent on these relationships because at times
You're asking some of these people to risk their lives for you
And so that's where I really started delving into how do I get people to trust and
Like me to the point where I can influence them in the shortest amount of time
That's really the biggest lesson I got out of those two years from doing that that mission set
Yeah
Well, that's and that's something that applies across the board. You know that's funny when you're talking about the switch going off in your head of like oh
I can use this that's the same thing that happened that's what started all this stuff
I went and talked to these freaking executives about leadership
They started asking me questions and I was just applying the principles the four laws combat take ownership
Like that's what I started and it was 30 it was the first question I got asked. I was like oh
Oh, you have this problem. Okay. Here's how you solve it just based on the principles that we already know
Yeah, it's like a freaking
Such a nice moment in my life. I was like oh
Because I did again. I think I was totally in search of the institutionized
I didn't understand I didn't know anything about civilian companies
I didn't know anything up at all about them and all of a sudden I realized in an instant that oh all this stuff applies
To all these leadership situations man and that's the same thing going back to building relationships
Like oh yeah guess what have you ever had a moment in your life where having an antagonistic relationship with someone you got to work with helps
It's like that that that that doesn't ever happen anybody ever never happened where oh
I don't get along with this person and I have to work with and it's beneficial to me doesn't happen
So why are you not focused on
Getting to build relationships with people it's freaking crazy but good lessons
Um you come back from that and you go back to trade it again, right? Yeah, I go back to trade it as the exo this time
Exo trade it. Yeah, what are you are you will you attend it now?
I'm a jail still or jj a jg yeah, yeah, yeah, because I did my so I because I didn't have to go through bugs
Everything else. I did my first deployment as an instant. Yeah, and so you know I'm a jg now and
And because I'm prior and listen and I knew the CEO there at the time who's most so prior and let's say guy
Cause actually him and I had done a deployment
So they we'd done that I racked the planet together
Okay, at team one and he was like yeah come on over
I was like you know I I need to do a disassociated tour
Is there like you need to because I was like hey can I go back and do my platoon commander? Yeah, and they're like no
They're like you need to get away from it for a little bit because you know they have like a limit on how much time you could be deployed
Mmm and they're like dude you're like right there you need to you need to go somewhere and take a knee
So I'm like trade it sounds good. I really like I really enjoyed my time there and so I decided to go back
And then you're doing the exo billet, which is not quite as fun as doing that. It's not definitely not as fun as being
Not what I thought it was gonna be so the CEO actually gets the funer job for sure because he's actually
Going to the training trips and debriefing as the exo you're dealing with
Yeah, everything else and the admin stuff the disciplinary problems getting on the the meetings at group
Yeah, yeah, you're I'm man my career was such a freaking
I was just so lucky at everything like when I was just the death of the L. I see you know
So just getting just going out and training trips and freaking awesome this
What point so how many years do you have in at this point? This is like 2018 so you're coming up on 20
Yeah, this is when you start thinking about maybe doing something else
Yeah, so I mean I figured I had the time so I'm like, I'm gonna go knock out my MBA
I always really enjoyed business and then through conversations
They were like hey after this they were like you can't do your your
Oh, I see until I 20 24 something like that. I'm like what am I gonna do until then?
Like you do more dissociated tours
And I'm like you know what that doesn't sound interesting to me
So I think I'm just gonna retire. I mean at that point I was gonna hit 20
So I'm like you know what I'm gonna go get my MBA and
And punch out
entire so that's at that point where I started looking into MBA programs and and trying to see where I was gonna go
And you're gonna go back to USD no, right now. I went to UCLA. Oh, you went to UCLA
Yeah, yeah, it was funny about that
I was really set on like getting an M7 school. You know like the magazine seven
So like I'm only gonna go to like war and her boo-ther MIT or one of those and so those are the only ones
I applied to and I realized that the GI bill doesn't cover
those because they're private schools
Even though like some of them actually had lower tuition than UCLA and at that point I had a really good friend of mine
Well, my best friends if you look at his resume. It looks almost exactly like mine like FMF Corman
You know teams USD finance degree and then he's like hey, bro
I'm actually gonna go to UCLA and I'm like why is that?
And then he's like dude, dude, GI bill pays for it because it's a public school
And I struggled with that for a little bit. I built as a cover private schools. It only covers like a small portion
I was still gonna have to take out like a six figure
Just a six figure student loan and I've always been pretty frugal about my money on my day
I don't want to take out this huge loan and then I kind of went into thought I'm like why do I want to go to one of these schools
Like why do I really want to go?
And at some point I realize I just want people to think I'm smart
I mean, we really like you know bullet down on this most simple phone. I just want people to think I'm smart
I'm like you know what I think I have enough
To get to where I want to go if I go to UCLA
So I would drive up to LA every weekend to go to school there and knock out my MBA and then from there you
You want to invest my banking right? Yeah, yeah, so I knew that I you know like way
What do you what do you do after an MBA like everybody does investment banking or
Consulting and
I always really liked finance and then my my buddy. I was so about cowboy
I'm going to tell you we got exact same resumes like do I'm going to go be an investment banker?
I'm like cool. I'm gonna go be an investment banker too
So is he like a year ahead of years? No, we're in the same class, but he actually knew how to do it
So he actually got in so there's a cycle to it and I didn't know that so when you first get to your MBA program
Literally the second you step on campus you're already recruiting for it
You're already recruiting for the the internship for that summer and then you go to your second year and after you graduate
Second year you start full time however by a time I figured it all out. I was already at my second year
So I was a year behind and
So nobody really wanted to deal with me because it wasn't the traditional path
So I just started reaching out to people on LinkedIn like sending them my resume and I would put in like whatever bank
US like I would put Air Force Veteran Marine Corps Veteran
I'm like dude if anybody's gonna answer me it's gonna be a veteran god
And that's how I started getting in was a veteran from these banks they would start reaching out. You only saw my resume
Like I think they were intrigued
Obviously the Navy seal park kind of stands out. I'm not gonna lie
I just that's definitely what got my foot in the door because
Some of these other people it's an extremely competitive job and some of these people
A waste martyr them me and be had like a legitimate pedigree in the finance world
And so
Meanwhile you were exo straight ahead. Yeah, so I told my wife. Good point man
Yeah, yeah, I told my wife I'm like dude when I go to these meet and greets because it's like a million meet and greets
Because it's extremely competitive. I'm telling it's it's so competitive
And especially in LA because in LA there's a lot less slot like if you go in New York
There's a ton of slots in your everybody wants to be a warm weather so everybody's like trying to apply to go to LA
And I told my wife I'm like when I go to these meet and greets like all these people
They're just ridiculously smart
How's it like it's pretty intimidating and then we had this one interview process where they actually take you in with your other competitors
So it's like you and two other people that you're competing with and then you go and you interview with these bankers
And these these interviews were like three hours long like you would do half an hour with this banker and then half an hour with this banker
And that's when I realized that I belong there that I could that I had a shot
Because the very first that that interview process wasn't technical at all. It was all about leadership
So when they start coming up with these questions like tell me about a time
Where this happened. I'm like cool. I have a story for that. I have a story for everything and
It was cool because I would tell my story and then the guy next to me will tell his story and it literally got to the point
Where I'm not in kidding you and in the interview the guy next to me was like I really hate going after him
What am I supposed to say after that?
So that's what I'm like oh I got a shot and you ended up getting hard. Yeah, I ended up getting the internship
So the internships like you know nine weeks long. It's basically like a nine week interview
It was legit like you're you're working your ass off grind. Yeah, it's a grind
And then you had another year of school the complete no because I had actually started my second year
It's so I so you got so your internship went right into job. Yeah, and that was actually one of the the the things were I
Use you finish school when you're in which you finish school when you're in still in yeah
And then when did you do that nine week internship did you leave
Damn yeah, I was already on my way out. Yeah, it was like
So like getting close to terminal even whenever exactly I said saved all my leaves specifically for for you know
Me getting out got it and so I used it all well up then and I got hired and they let me start right away because
You know I didn't have another year of school
So
And then retired and then how do you like how do you like the investment banking world?
I like I liked a lot of it and I didn't like other parts of it
I really liked the mergers and acquisitions
So that's what we did we did mergers acquisitions and then leverage buyouts and we were dealing with big because I got hired with a big bold
Bracket banks were working on like some big deals and it was exciting it was cool was interesting
It just wasn't cool for 18 to 20 hours a day
Like I worked long days it was like an early night was midnight
But most of the times on you know I'm building power points and Excel models till three four in the morning
Those times where I didn't sleep at all like our presentation was do it like 5 a.m. and I turned it in at 5 a.m
Where were you working out of so home because it was pretty good yeah, so I didn't have to move up to LA
Which is good because my wife didn't want to move up there
But we were set on moving up there and but it was
Every time we drove up there to look at places the drive home would be very quiet because we could just tell that neither of us wanted to move up there
But it worked out for me because like I said it was COVID so they're like hey we're gonna be virtual you know for the time being
And
And I think when I realized like I don't want to do this long term is when I saw the managing directors have been there for a while like I would finish the presentation
You know and it's like four in the morning like how you need to call them?
I'm like it's four in the morning like you need to call a managing director
To me T.S. to look over that PowerPoint for we turn it in and I'm like dang so I guess it's never stops
And it was and I had to had a couple T.B. eyes throughout my career
So my my green because I wasn't there was literally nice where I won't go sleep at all
I'd roll right into the next day and and
My greens were starting to get more frequent and staring at a screen like all day long and I'm like this isn't gonna be
A long term play for me, but I'm gonna tough it out
You know for the two or three years or whatever you gotta be to make VP and then move on some else and I didn't realize that the job offers
We're gonna start rolling in so quickly
So like once the job offers like recruiters started reaching out to me. I'm like I'm gonna start looking elsewhere
And around that time is you know J.P. had been talking to me about echelon front now for
For about a year like even when I was in trade-a he's like hey you thought about coming over here and and I was I was interested but I just never materialized
You know
And I just went down my path I told him. Hey J.P. this is actually what I'm doing now and I'm kind of all in on it and
So it's around that time. I'm already looking at moving to different firms
I've already got a couple that I'm pretty close to
to signing with and and then J.P. calls me one day and he's like hey bro
We have a client who you know about 50% of his employee speaks Spanish and I told him we could deliver
I was like you did
He's like well yeah I got you
Because he knew I was fluent in Spanish and
I was like bro you ever seen office space?
I was like that's my life. I have seven bosses Bob
You know so you're all I'm on seven different deals and for each deal. I have to get
approved I mean they granted some of them are are you know
have some spill over so there's a minute I'm working with you know managing director for two or three different deals
So I'm like dude it's gonna be so hard for me to get a day off like it's gonna be near impossible
And he's like bro I really need this
I'm like all right you know
And J.P. is one of my brothers like I love J.P. to death so I'm like let me see what I can do
So I put in the time for two personal days and by the way a personal day
It's funny when you get the email that says this is what a personal day looks like you will check your email
You know like six times during that day and if you need something you will answer it so it's
Really like a personal day so freaking working
So I'm like I took two personal days to come out and help them out with this FTX and
So I would literally you know teach all day long and then I pulled an all-nighter
Trying to catch up on all the work that I missed throughout the day so I didn't sleep for like those three days that I was there
Um, but it was cool because I showed up and it was this construction company and when I showed up
I could tell that that some of the guys weren't happy to be there and not because they're you know lazy
Anything that they just wanted to go to work
They're hardworking people you know so they're like they want to be working instead of being in this
Leadership course and
So let's see I think I think it was a Thursday
Yeah, I was a Thursday where the first day of class started and we split the class in two because they
Had so many people that we were gonna teach one class one day and then the other group that's next day and on Saturday
We did like a debrief tying it all back into their business
So day one I'm teaching I could see it that you know they'd rather be working than be there
One of their form and who you know it's like one of their rock star form and shows up late
Like same thing. He's like man, I'd rather be working right now. You know, I'll be there and then at the end of the day
I I noticed the switch like they I could tell that they were enjoying themselves and they
They were learning stuff and it was clicking the light bulbs were coming on and at the end of the day this form and he comes on to me
He's like hey man, I'm really sorry that I showed up late. Can I come back tomorrow and do it all over again?
I was like it's fine with us as long as your boss is cool with it and he's like okay
So he comes back the next day
You know and and does the full day of training with echelon front and
And
on the third day
when I
Herd the debrief points and the impact that I made. I mean some of these debrief points there do it was like emotional
Like it was like shit and I was like wow like you guys are doing something really great here
Um, and I felt good about it
You know their CEO was just
Just cared so much it's super super intelligent guy very caring very humble
And it was just a pleasure talking to him and and seeing how much he cared about his team and his people and then seeing
How these other people appreciated now really start to appreciate the fact that he did this for them
Like was trying to develop them as leaders because he cared about them. He cared about the company
And I told J.P. I'm like man that felt good
I haven't felt good about what I was doing for work for for a while since I left the teams and
Um, and that's when I was like okay
Let's have a serious conversation of what this could possibly look like for me joining EF
So here you are you know that that little
The little
obstacle that you get over with and I obviously I've been doing this for a long time now
But there's a little obstacle with some people when they show up for training and the obstacle is
Well, there's there can be several of them but one of the biggest obstacles is they don't yet understand that
Leadership is a skill
And that it's something that they use and it's something that they can actually learn and get good at
And it doesn't take very long in those sessions where people go oh wait that's me. Oh wait. I could use that
And all of a sudden they realize
This is gonna make my life so much better and it's gonna make my team's life so much better and that
That is so gratifying to see that and what's really awesome is
When you look up in three months six months or a year and now you see where that company is and they they're trajectory that
That changes for a company and how they elevate and move forward
Man, it's freaking it's very very rewarding to say the least yeah every time I do another job
I'm just just solidifies that decision for sure
It's weird where you thinking
Because because the first gigs that you did was teaching FTX which is like our fuel training exercise which is
You know, I'm JP and I've talked about this where I'm like a HAP people don't they don't need to really like know how to
Clear room yeah, it's just it's funny almost the human instincts that you have of how you would clear a room are good enough
To do the FTXs. It's not about teaching people how you know the tactics of combat
It's just about teaching them leadership, but it's funny
Even the plans they come up with like we give them a target
Their plans are like perfectly fine. They're perfectly fine. Yeah, no
Sometimes they're not that great sometimes they make mistakes, but a lot of times it's like, yeah, you know what that's that would work
That would work on this target for real and these are people that are civilians because
Let's face it hitting a target of bad guys. There's it's not rocket science
It's not rocket science to figure out what you're gonna do and we give them enough basics that they can figure it out
but
For me
You know the the leadership laboratory that we got to work in we were actually in and actually a trade it and actually seeing
Patoons go through that is such a powerful thing because
Man when you are in those situations
You feel it and when you like you think all I'm good at detaching and then you go on a run where you're freaking
Yellow and screaming and you you know and you're saying oh
How was that detachment on the last run?
Yeah, as you were yelling and screaming at everybody and shooting your weapon a bunch and not and no one took charge of anything
So obvious
When you actually experience it and you learn that lesson so much more thoroughly
When you actually experience it's freaking awesome to watch. Yeah, absolutely
I've had messages like on on Instagram or LinkedIn
Where people have gone through our training
It's like hey, I had this situation at work and I thought about that time when you took the gun away from me and told me to lead
You know because when they're not detached and they're just getting after it with their gun
But they're actually in charge like every now and then I'll take their gun away
Like hey lead now you can lead you know how they're gun and and so you know
They'll right back like I remember the time you did this to me or you said this to me and and I say that at at that FTX is on my K
You know
Going through that pain
Actually solidifies that lesson way more and it's like Bruce Lee says the pain will leave you when it's done teaching you
One of my favorite quotes
And I tell people that too like in my brief in the morning on my hate. We're not here to teach you leadership
I mean, we're not here to teach you tactics. We're here to teach you leadership and in the absence of knowledge
Because you don't have any you know knowledge doing this. What do you have to lean back on your leadership?
Which is simply you trying to influence another 25 people towards a common goal
So you're gonna have to use all those tools that we've you know talked about and the the groups that do the best or the ones that are able to apply it immediately like they make that
Connection and the ones that struggle are the ones that that you know
Can't seem to do that. You know what's interesting. I was just thinking about this
From a GG to perspective how long you've been training GG for since 2012. I know lots of off
So so what's interesting is you know people like you take a normal dude and you say hey what did that doesn't train
And you think hey if you get in a fight what would you do they kind of like they kind of think what is it that the hey?
I just see red bro
You know I go off bro like that's kind of what they think they think that that is
How they're gonna fight and that's how they would win in a fight like hey. I'll just freaking make it happen
And that's totally ignorant that's one of the most ignorant things you could say and if you go against someone that's trained then you're absolutely gonna lose
But there's also a really good chance to lose anyways
Imagine this there's people that that are in leadership positions that their mentality is that exact same thing
Hey, oh if I'm in charge of tell people to all handle it and and they could literally learn
Judges who for leadership we have jujitsu for leadership it's like an amazing
Untapped knowledge that like the graces the graces brought you to the world and all of a sudden people like oh
I can choke people I don't I can defeat to someone that's bigger than me
I can avoid getting hit like there's all these amazing things that we literally did not know as humans
We did not know and if you were to go out and a fight and if I would have gotten no fight in
in 1990 or 1991 I
Would do what my instincts are throw haymakers whatever like whatever it is a human is gonna do is what I would do and then all of a sudden as soon as I learn
Oh the joke
Like all of a sudden you know what to do and now you can handle all these situations and it's the same thing with what we teach it's like oh
This isn't some
This isn't some mysterious thing like here. Oh, this is an arm walk it's called cover-in move here's
Taking the back this is keeping things simple you can actually learn maneuvers for leadership and that's what hits people when they're
Going through our programs you can see it in the face they're like oh
I remember when a guy was doing this to me and all I had to do back was was
To manage you know how to meet reflect and diminish I could have taken that angry person and
Reflected some of those emotions but diminish them and then I could reflect it in such a way that they would
Realize that I'm on their side and then we'd be able to have a real conversation to move this important
That's one move
There's all these moves you can learn and man. It's just like this. You know what it's actually the same look when somebody does
You jits you and whatever moment because different people get it at different time that moment where they go oh
This is amazing like oh it all makes sense. I think it's sometimes when people realize that
You know oh and then you sweep them and you're in the mountain and they go oh
It all connected you see that look in the rise and I see that look in the eyes
That's what you're talking about like the guy that you're talking about that came back the end of the day like
Hey, can I come tomorrow?
Because he realized that it's all connected that leadership is a skill that he could actually utilize these tools to go out there and
Lead his team with with skills and with techniques and with procedures moves
Man, it's freaking empowering
legit
Um
And that's where you're at right now. Yeah, we just went through your whole damn life bro
Yep, that that's pretty impressive. We'll have to uh, I know there's a I know you had some some stuff that you wrote down for me
That we didn't cover today that we'll probably cover cover on the next time as didn't you know get a little bit more granular
And some of these things that you experience for sure
But probably a pretty good place to wrap it up
Of course echo probably has some questions at this point. Oh, you got what a question oh, yeah, keep it simple
Have you ever heard that you look like Oscar Delahoya?
Every day of my life since I was 16
As a matter of fact and my platoon's they already knew it was coming and so when we would go out
Like you know people would be like hey is that and they're like you
Yeah, we're security yeah, that's what they would say and
Just not not too long goes in New York and I was with my wife and this guy comes out to me
He's like hey man, I still think pound for pound you're the best
And then she's like are you gonna correct him and I'm like I'm tired of correcting people but then it's like more people
Start coming up like hey guys. I'm not Oscar
The buff version
Scrilla was jacked version the jack version. I've gotten that forever
Yeah, that is an uncanny resemblance
All right, yeah, who do you look like echo Charles? Jade?
Too easy though you even asked that one before that was too easy
Got that twin brother. Oh, yeah
Man like I said we'll dig into some more of this stuff in the future probably could place a wrap it today
That goes Charles yes sir sounds like it kind of seems like Carlos has gotten a lot done
Yes, he has I'm thinking maybe we should all do more what do you think what do we start?
Well, you mentioned you get to what a good place to start. Yes, sir
Yeah, we want to what do you a purple belt yeah purple belt
2012 it's 21.9 year when do you get a purple? just recently yeah, but often on that's yeah
I was on deployment a lot and and then I would bounce around a couple of schools and
I'm training actually with your buddy Aaron Hernandez. Oh, right on to he's awesome
Frick and awesome. Yes, yeah, he's he's awesome. You know like I started he started training that when we were at Fabio Santos
He was like yeah, you're so yeah, I want to see those pictures bro
That's freaking rad. What yeah
He's awesome man his dad like would just come out
Is a lot of times nowadays you see like the dads all ended you did too and that's why the kids are there
Yeah, almost against their will
It didn't seem like Aaron's dad was into it, but he's like oh, this is what my kid wants to cool
I'm gonna sit here every day, you know for two hours on the bench waiting for my kid to get done with this
Whatever this weird stuff is that he's doing. Yeah, it's freaking legit so what's that?
To your almost ten years deep
Got that purple belt under a
Improble that happens yeah, so yeah, even life was like that too, right?
Dude, life was a white belt, but I started training
Those guys in 2005, but actually he had trained before that
Lafet trained at Fabios
Before 2005 so life was like white belt for I mean
Yeah, I was like you should say no, I
Long time long time long time. That was perfectly happy at blue belt
Yeah, Aaron was like bro. I got he got it. You got it. Do it to you. Yeah, blue belt is the
Blue belt is the last chance you have to be under the radar. Yeah, because once you're a purple belt
But people expect you there's a yeah you
You can get tapped you can literally get tapped by a white belt as a blue belt and it's not that big of a deal right
You're kind of like well, you know, I'm just a blue belt just to blue belt it covers a lot of ground
I was a blue belt for a long time too
I was a blue belt because I was a blue belt
I got my blue belt and San Diego, but then I moved to Virginia Beach and I mean dude, and I was training
When I was in San Diego training all the time and then when I got to Virginia Beach
I did a couple of appointments so I wasn't training that's much but even I was on deployment
I would train with the boys
But I was still a blue belt so it was years. I think I was a blue belt for like I
Wanted and then when I got back to San Diego
So, you know, I had to like re-earn my
Risp it was like I it was like when I wasn't at Fabios he's I wasn't training
He's like whatever and I'm the way you were you might have gotten better, but it didn't count
We're starting where you left off. Yeah, we started where I left off with him
So it took me another
Another probably I think I was a blue belt like five years
Blue belt and I
I never buy my wife anything like hardly ever poor woman
But when I got my purple belt when I got my purple belt
I got up I went to a flower store. I got a purple flower
Of some kind or like five purple flowers and brodma that's I was so stoked that I wanted my wife to be
Got a stoked to get that purple belt but and and I was ready for it too like I mean
When I got my purple balls ready for that purple belt
I had somebody got their black belt the other day friend of mine got a black belt the other day
He's not ready for it. I was like no one feels like they're ready for their black belt no almost no one right?
Maybe you just won worlds or whatever
But you're not just like oh yeah, I forget who it was. I think might have been Clark
greasy I think I could be wrong so whenever
But it was a kind of where he was winning everything as a brown belt everything and
I think he was like I don't know if it was a coach or whatever someone was kind of like oh
Wait is he doing that just so he can win a bunch and
Someone was like bro like he can't compete as a brown belt anymore. It's like someone has to give it
Black belt like that's that's the only exception I could ever think of yeah well Dean list one ADCC is a brown belt
Yeah, yeah, yeah, but via submission by the way absolutely by the way
I'm doing so so we're thinking to Jets is good. Yes, it Jets is good fitness is good Carlos in great shape
You know, no, it's good to see if so we got some healthy how should I say healthy we want to go in a healthy direction
Mentally physically same so I'm gonna talk about energy drinks first
Cuz that's you know
Kind of what we do from time to time so we got jocco discipline go energy drink healthy energy drink
By the way, if you didn't know Carlos and did those things power the FTXs. I know
Like a soft ball what he called rhetorical kind of question because I know I know you know, but the the the the
Discipline goes scenarios
So yes, so yeah, we will drink energy drinks though as long as this kind yeah, yeah for sure because the other kind
Bad is bad
It's it's a dichotomy well this kind
Completely bad for you legitimately bad for you and this isn't like oh well
Jocco's trying to sell his energy drink no, I'm telling you those other energyings are
factually bad for you. We have one that is factually good for you. Yes, sir. Factually you know that there's a
I don't know the service but you can do it online
I was gonna do it for a video. I was gonna make long time ago before all this where you can make your own energy drink like if you want oh
You know Carlos extra thunder energy drink or whatever and you can kind of pick a flavor and then like
They'll design the thing or you could design the thing and then you just get it
But it's all like the similar like if you want cherry blast or whatever
I don't know what you call it, but if you get like a cherry flavored one it's like the same cherry flavored as like you know
Jocco cherry blast
I would do lemon lime lows
You know it's interesting
You might think yourself good because you did the investment banking thing for a while and did you guys take any companies public
You so actually during my internship
I don't like you it's interesting because we work with a bunch of public companies obviously
But you might think to yourself like hey, well, why does everyone just make you know a
Guad energy drink that's good for you. You think that right like hey
Well, that just seems like that seems like a good idea
And here's the deal
It's more expensive
It's more expensive and it's gonna cut into your profit and as soon as you get into a point in a company where you're like oh
We want to do the right thing and make the best product and we are not gonna make as much money
There's like
armies of people that tear you apart and say no just freaking make more money. It's the same thing with you know with our hard goods with our clothing
Yeah, as soon as you get to a point oh you where you can make jeans. Oh, we're making jeans
As soon as some of those hey we could shave
48 cents off the price per pair of those jeans. Oh, yeah, there's an army of people that say do it
They sell they say sell your soul. That's what they say and it works
Of course it I mean it works think about it too. Especially the more you sell right where okay
I'm gonna do this. Oh, we're gonna shave 48 cents when you're selling like 10 pair or 10 whatever it's like 40 cents
It's like what four dollars in front
I'd rather keep my hand bigger. Yeah, but once the numbers start going way up there in 48 cents means like another like
I don't know half a million dollars for you or whatever
Yeah, oh, I think that 48 cents
You know so it's a literal selling of the soul literal selling of the soul man because like this is pasteurized right
Which means we not to put chemicals in it which by the way this is chemicals that everybody uses they all throw them in there
Hey, there's not that bad right right it's not that bad. Yeah. Yeah. Sell yourself. We'll say industry standard
Yeah, it's the industry standard. You kind of shred your shoulders
But well, you know, that's the way everyone's doing it. Well, there's certain like toxins right where like the FDA is like well
You just keep them below this level and
Technically it's like it's legal or whatever
It's like consider not
harmful whatever or if they pound like three of those every day
That's crazy big trouble
Big trouble now the last now with these obviously it's good. So yeah get on some of that that'll help us you know move you in the right direction
Yes, sir stay fit and mentally because the cognitive stuff and there as well also
Keep your joints in in the game as well, you know if you still if you want to work out as you get older
You don't you love staying
No, do you live today I did yeah, well time you live what time do you
We're good
It's not 430
It's I saw today I got up at 6
What'd you do
Just like don't not do but like roughly what'd you do pull ups do you what'd you do
Tuesdays like day. Yeah me too
Let me just happen to be this is a Sunday
Yeah, but here's what's cool. I got done. I was just
But my son opened the door to my garage and I could you know feel his presence there
And only he's wanted to jacksteel himself and I racked away squats
Racked away turn around and he goes how many more you got and I go I'm done because I was literally done and he goes
Ways are good at the pier and I go
Let's hit it
Is it cold right now kind of cold it's California it's California meaning it's not gonna freeze
But it's not gonna be warm either are we using a wet suit? I used the wetsuit today
A warm weakness weakness no no efficiency look do you want to enjoy surfing you know what enjoy surfing
You know the weird thing is frankly if you go surfing without a wetsuit
It's only cold for the first
Most days I mean if sure that's freezing but most days it's only cold for three minutes and then it's just normal and you feel fine
Those three minutes though
That's what puts feet that's what has people squeezing in that damn wetsuit
Yeah, and also when you're in the cold water they like your handle and maybe for
Like an eye me they depends who you are obviously but after like an hour it's almost like the coldness like you get hit with that initial coldness and your body's like
I'm not that cold actually so we're cool plus you're generating heat from all the stuff
But then the coldness kind of on a strategic level starts to just see pin yeah, and it kind of hits and you like probably I'm kind of this
It's kind of what is it big factor you surf crows now? I don't here's a big factor if you're gonna be catching a lot of waves
And there's good waves coming in you're gonna be fine
But if it's one of those days we're gonna be waiting and there's a little brisk breeze at your back
You're gonna get chilly woo
You're gonna get chilly woo factors with that because one you're not having fun
You know like well, you do it like you actually don't even notice a lot of stuff when you're having like fun
You don't notice how tired you're getting you don't know that notice a lot of stuff colds probably one of those when you're you know
And then you're moving way less yeah, and then you're just sitting there just being cold. Yes, there's there be cold
There there's a let's face it. That's kind of legit
You know when I when I see someone scanning it
Like props you get into I'm giving you props if you're scanning it you're getting props
Maybe it's the dead of summer, but any other time if it's not
If it's not all-guest and you're scanning it
I give you a little bit of a little bit of and it's sometimes myself too. Yeah, you know what we're gonna do it
Let's skin
Because when you go through buds did you have wet suits that had like legs connected to him when you went through buds?
No, I don't think so we just had shorties oh no, I have like beaver tail
Oh, so that's what we had at first recon bat time okay for tails so when I got the buds
I'm like they think of these students better what's it to be caught at what's beaver tail
It's like you're the back of the wet suit has like a long tail on it and it comes up underneath your crotch and like snaps into position
And fun of you it does nothing to hold in any water at all. It's the dumbest invention ever
Whoever invented the beaver tail is an idiot you would never come up with that plan right?
So because but now they have where the the the shirt of the wet suit is connected to the trunk
Which is a whole different ballgame this is a whole different ballgame. This is a totally different situation
And they get that in buds by the way you got that in buds
I don't think I've ever worn a wet suit ever
I can't remember one single time
That's the way it is no light
Shredding
Anyway, back to our joints
We don't we don't want to have joint problems. That's another thing cold lot is good for you
And it's by the way that's where you got to get in that bath yeah, but if you're not gonna jump in ice bath as often as maybe you could
You just keep the what's called joint warfare super krill oil supple me just take this up on it
So you don't easy way so you don't got to freeze yourself vitamin D
Take vitamin D 100% take that every day. Yeah, my god cold war
Keep the immunity strong
You get all this stuff from jockelfuel.com get some milk to because let's face it man
Let's face it that's a tough one. It's a tough one to not
Bro, did you see that did you I posted some stakes I had the other day. Yes, I saw that
That's amazing. Yeah people people semi stakes
Which is like the only like yeah people semi stakes those were from they were you know jack on them
Jack yeah, he's a barbecue yeah, he sent those
He's just the ones that he always could I think it's but maybe I don't know they're cow k
W. Yeah, they were good. They were good. Yeah, they were so good
Even when I got done eating those even when I got done eating a freaking full on
Tomahawk steak. I was like cool guess what I wanted a little bit of sweetness
Goodness a little bit what's that other word?
It's like
Savory Savory is like steak, right? Yeah, like saltier with it right and then sweet
What's mok it's got both
Well, if you think about it the real good desserts the flavors have like little bit us like save or like a little bit us
Yeah, yeah, yeah, and then if you think about it like the good like savory has a little bit of sweet too
And you think about it so what about mok basically it's hot mok season by the way
It's like there's having a hot mok in the morning
Oh, man. I'm not talking early morning like pre workout. I'm talking nine o'clock in the morning
Starting to feel a little bit of hunger. It's a little bit cool outside hot mok coming at you live
Do I throw whipped cream on top of that I do
That's still pale. Oh, well, yeah, actually a lot of whipped cream well, I don't know a lot
But the one that my wife buys is actually not that bad for it. It's actually pretty solid
I'm surprised by that keep it a real with that keto
Check the gizelle's a mok too. That's clean protein though by the way
We don't really mention that because it like sometimes we're back in the day or whenever you didn't take mok
You take protein shake you got the
Let's face it like you get some secondary effects. You know from that not the kind this facts you weren't negative
But that's not like that anymore
But yeah, is that and then also jocquate tea the old school feel like tea hot tea now obviously
And if you like dead left thing by the way. Yeah, sir. You don't want that job. It's the one
Yeah, get it all at jockelfuel.com also the energy drink you already said
Right by the way, I don't know if I'm supposed to talk about this or not yet, but we got
We got some ready to drink mok coming oh yeah, and
Let's just say
I'm not saying that the creators that the creators deserve a Nobel Prize
I'm not saying that it's definite, but they should be in the content should they should be mentioned there should be a mentioned
When you try these things
Yeah, so you're gonna be able to in the future
Going to a wall-wop boom go restrate and just get mok on tap or like and actually that makes sense when you think about it because it's not like
When you think about what if you spend anytime thinking about it
Maybe I do maybe I don't I don't know but either way it's like you can't just because mok is the powder right
Then you have your mix like you know we'll put in the banana we'll put in the whatever right and it's like this variations of mixes and variations of results
And it makes sense
So it's like hey if you're gonna drink the ready to drink one you got to commit to a very specific mix across the board
Yeah, per flavor. You seem saying so now you got to rely on whoever
Expert I know there in expert. I'll tell you that you ever had something coming to your life that you just just came out of nowhere
Like you couldn't have predicted it. Oh, yeah, let me tell you something
Yeah, salted caramel. I didn't even know what this this does not in my world never in my world this idea
Salted caramel. What is this like what is this?
We have a salted caramel verse
I'm actually familiar with the salted caramel so that one to me that makes sense that sounds delicious all right
So there we go. There you go. Oh, come also get it also origin USA. This is American made stuff
Not just any stuff like for real American made like products jeans boots small it's on there the accessories
I've been going kind of deep on the accessories
Recently on that website pretty impressive just getting it there. Oh, yeah, so yes everything from the material all the way to the product all made in America
Quality stuff to if you care about the people and the process
If you care about humanity yes, sir. How's that yes, sir? If you care about humanity go to origin USA dot com
because
You know what you were talking about you know you were talking about it earlier Carlos, you know seeing people these people are hard workers and
The first time you worked with an echelon front client like man these people are working hard
They want to do a good job and that's awesome. That's that's so
Awesome that we get to experience all these people across the country, but then there's the industries and there's corporations that say you know what
To hell with those people
To hell with those hard working people we're gonna offshore this stuff. We're gonna put it into slave labor camps
We're gonna give money to communists. That's what we're doing
That's what we're doing that's
That's what we're doing we're gonna we're gonna have slave people
Build this stuff and we're gonna give money to communist regimes. That's what we'll do how's that sound and that kind of goes along with that 48 cents like
You know what you're trying to get that's what drives it. Yeah, don't let that don't let that happen
Good words and you get to your boots get your jeans
Get your E-Four sure yeah, we're ginger
You don't go
Actually in a way that's not 100% my fault. Yeah, yeah, 100% my fault. I feel like it's 100% your fault too
But I actually feel bad too because like what we were just what I was just I thought something coming into your life
When you put on an origin key for real when you put on an origin key
It's for real you got some other thing coming in your life that you did not expect was that thing
Yeah, there's that I will take you as soon as we get done recording
I'll take you can you can touch one of mine
I'll get you one
You can touch one of my origin keys. You'll be like what is this what sort of
Unicorn fur is this that's been used great this time because this is different level man. Yeah, it's a different level
Yeah, we got so it's gonna say I was gonna say this kind of good news in a way for me
So like you know I can kind of like you know how you someone's about to do something really like
Whether it be fun or cool or it's gonna be real beneficial and then you get to like experience it with you know
Like you get to share that experience
That's kind of good news can't wait for you
That origin rash guards
Yeah, I do use yeah, Native America. Yeah, just imagine that made America
Beautiful thing go also
Chocolate store is called chocolate store that's where you can get your discipline equals freedom shirts
The jujitsu shirt that I know the shirt you are representing hardcore by the way
That freaking thing was legit. Oh, yeah
So there's it there's a kind of a jujitsu section. Yes, how many shirts are in the jujitsu section right now just that one
Section but it's a break out area yeah, but when Dean's shirt comes out
Yeah, will it's gonna say foot right just like yours is good
Says foot actually that's his technically that's his design right I just
Sticker someone put a sticker on the gym out here and it's got it's got leg and old nom
Picture of a dude with like a steel pot helmet on in nom American, but it's Dean Lister's face and it says foot soldier
See we might have to have a Dean Lister section
Dean with the feet and Dean and that whole thing sure so there you go, but yeah
Good spot to get this stuff talk with store where the like I said discipline could see them jiu-jitsu stuff
Good, it's a good one. You want to star me navy game. Yeah, it's face it good goes deep. We'll say that
We did we did appreciate that and it kind of worked for navy or was this yes? Apparently in the assessment fully
Seems like it worked out good. So speak for themselves. But yeah, also we have the shirt locker
Which is the new shirt every month
They're separate from the regular store, but it's a new shirt. They're a little bit more creative
Good good feedback on now
Got things square the way too by the way
We got one coming out too right there should be anyone coming out pretty soon. Yeah, so if I'm not sure
So right now like now if you join you'll get that shirt for that month
You know before it was like okay, I joined then the next month your shirt kind of comes but it's all squared and right away
All that kind of stuff's good squared
So yeah, we got
December still going and then yet January this another one that's how it works
That's what that's what month he sure means subscribe to that if you're also subscribed with his podcast
We got this podcast. We got joc on rambling. We got the ground to podcast. We got the weird kid podcast
We also have joc on the ground. Joc on the ground.com
We're on there answering questions life advice life advice alternative
Topics that apply to everything
You know if you if you know the way brought we probably you see it on all things that it also protects us because listen
We don't know what's gonna happen in the world but we do know that sometimes people want to control what you say
They want to control what we say
We haven't read any major issues yet. Coupled we brushed up against couple
And we'd have a couple scenarios unfold and just in case just to protect us from that we got to have a contingency plan
That's joc on the ground.com go there if you want to support cost $8.18 a month and we give you this extra podcast
But look if you can't afford that it's okay email assistance at joc on the ground.com
We just got to have somewhere as an alternative
Place to be in case so that's where we're at YouTube channel. Yep. We have a YouTube channel. You want to see
Oscar Delahoya
Carlos Mendes. How is he? You know his handsome Jay you more jack though
Thank you. So that's what that would be the telltale sign. I think if someone runs into you in the street you're gonna be a thing
That's Oscar Delahoya. He's like yeah, I've been lifting yeah, yeah, this is too
But yes, if you want to see what you know what he looks like YouTube channel video version of this podcast and excerpts
Which is important yeah also check out origins
YouTube channel. Yeah, it's good to know what's happening for instance covid outbreak and main
You know about that. I did not see so if you you would you would you would know about that
COVID outbreak and man we had like 40 people
Probably yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but which is a bummer
We got people coming back in now, but black Friday. Do you know what that is after thanksgiving people? Oh shopping
And we sold a bunch of stuff which is awesome and then everyone got sick with COVID or a bunch of people got sick with COVID
So now we're trying to play catch up and Pete making moves trying to make it happen. Yeah, Amanda
That's a big like learning channel too when you think about it because you can see like
Like like of course how the inner workings of American businesses
But like how that just like this just like and they they've done it many times before where it's like an issue will come up and you can see like
How they'll solve the issue and it's unique to that specific thing so it's like okay, you can kind of it's like a demonstration
Yeah
Psychological warfare
You got any
moments of weakness you can overcome them press play on your phone hit play got an MP3 out there
Yeah, how many tracks you remember? Oh, it's I think it's seven or nine I forget nine tracks
I'm thinking yeah, so nine nine you ever take
Moments or types of moments of weakness
You got coverage for them
Yeah, also the codemire has a
Company called flip side canvas flip side canvas dot com go there cook get cool stuff to hang on your wall
If you don't have a if you don't have a elk
Head to hang on your wall yeah, I do that
Then you can get one of these things as an ultimate ultimate thing to hang on your wall
Books got some books um
Final spin that just came out
Getting freaking awesome reviews which is crazy. It's crazy to
Think of something weird and then write it and then people give you cool reviews right free very cool
It's not what you expect I have to say that
That's a lot of people's it wasn't expecting this fact some people go I
Wasn't expecting the story to go this way
Again, we're not very pretty when less predictable possibly than you know some people might think
Leadership strategy and tactics field manual
The code they evaluate is the protocol discipline because freedom field manual
Way to warrior kid one two three and four this is the book to get for all the kids that you know
By the way, sometimes people like oh, I does it is it a put appropriate for girls yes
Girls boys kids
Get these freaking books for the kids. This is a Christmas season get there's no better gift you can get a kid than these books
That's a that's a bold statement Carlos do you think that's a bold statement?
No better no better gift. I would have to agree. I grew up with books love books
I don't think there's don't read enough these days. I don't think there's a better gift you can give a kid than the way the warrior kid books
And I got many many many kids and parents that will back that up that aren't me
Mike in the dragons you can also get that for the little kids
Warning
Little warning when you read that to your kids
You might start crying. It's happened before echo Charles
No, that was where the warrior kid won oh really uncle Jake one in okay when I was making the video
Yeah a little bit for making the dragon
Way to work kid when uncle takes spoiler alert by the way one uncle Jake had to win home
I was gonna say dude. I was laughing
When I read that one story you were crying like really hard
I'm crying that's the thing
He edited it down. He put you at it's the park us. I'm like now we never yet
He edited it down. I didn't realize it until later because he was
Right and couldn't put a sentence to do that and then I'm
I started laughing so hard. I'm like bro you can't break down like this
He's talking about he started on a whole I five over he's breaking down
It was a sad scene is what it was like or a happy soon
So warning Mike in the dragons Mike catch you off guard if you're feeling emotionally vulnerable
Then you might catch you a little bit so just you know stay strong stay focused don't let you so break down
About face by hack worth extreme ownership and that I caught a few leadership
That actually helped your marriage that attitude
Take your ownership of that. I'll be back to read the book again put in a different way because the first time I read it
I was like okay, I want to be a better leader in combat so that's kind of like the vision I had when I was reading it
And then the second time I'm like
I made I'm gonna read it for my life my personal life. Yeah, yeah, that's a good
With lens it's such a useful switch where like because that's a big thing right where it's like oh
Yeah, these big bad Navy seals. They're gonna tell me how to run my daycare center like bro no way
In real life no way but it's like just like yes
Yeah, exactly right where it's like the Navy see like all the combat stuff
That's just the example essentially it's just an example of these principles like
Being used in these like
situations or whatever but and since they they are useful and everything
If you look at it in the sense of word this is they're talking to me for my specific situation and using the
The battlefield doesn't matter for for sure, but they're talking to me for me for my specific situation
It's like oh shoot everything checks out. Yeah, and as you read things from different perspectives
Like yeah, you can read it from a professional perspective like you did the first time Carlos
Then you read it from a person perspective the next time but then guess what happens you get promoted
Read it again. You see it from another perspective again
Then you have a problem what you get moved to a new team and everything's a dynamic are different
Read it again. It's a you will have a different perspective and you will pick up more things from those books
Also
We have a leadership consultancy. We were just talking about national on front. National on front dot com if you want to do any of the things that we talk about on this podcast
If you want to learn to the information go to national on front dot com. So what we do we
Do look we do the FTX that's one part of it. We also do
Leadership training that's not experiential so you're gonna sit down learn with us
But we'll still make it dynamic through role playing and other other methodologies that we have so
If you want to check some of that out go to national on front dot com. You haven't found there Carlos. Oh, yeah
It's awesome. I mean the people that you meet are just amazing as well because I mean people that call for extreme ownership are not
lazy people
People who just want to take it to the next level so I honestly have a meta client yet that I just
Didn't really like and I bet it's awesome because you keep in touch with them like they hit you up every now and then and
They come to your friends
For sure I get text all the times I get text from that are like hey, we just did this it's awesome
I'll also get text like hey can I talk to you and they'll have some situation going on and it's like all right
What do you got? What do you got? Let's work through this hey we also have an online
training academy and
There's a bunch of reasons why we started that the biggest reason why we started is because
like I was saying earlier about
Juditsu and actually having a skill and getting good at this thing called leadership
Well just like you jitsu you can't go to one class and be like, oh, okay cool. I'm good now
I know it no it takes repetition it takes understanding the various angles
It takes expanded knowledge it takes confronting different scenarios multiple times so you understand how to understand them
You've heard to understand how to understand them
Imagine that you're looking at a situation
You don't know what to do you can actually understand how to understand that
So this doesn't happen overnight. That's why that's why we made extreme ownership dot com and
The online training academy
We're on there all the time there's courses that you can take you can go live sessions
I'm on there two or three times a week answering questions face to face like on a zoom call
It's a zoom call
You want to ask me a question come on there extreme ownership dot com if you want to check that out
If you want to help service members
Active and retired you want to help their families you want to help go to star families check out mark leaves mom mama Lee
She's got a charity organization does a ton of incredible stuff for our veterans
If you want to donate or you want to get involved go to America's mighty warriors dot org
Actually, just for Jill Rogan talking about hyperbaric chambers
So that's one of the big things that mama Lee does is she takes service members and gets them hyperbaric chamber treatments for like
30 straight days so good for you so helpful so check that out if you want
And if you want more of my just continue
Droning talking
or you need more of echoes
I'm just unknown randomness
Yeah, you can find something to watch on Twitter on Instagram on Facebook on Echo Charles and I am at Jockawlin like Echo's Echo Charles
Carlos
Was was is now on the gram
Carlos underscore
Mendez underscore 246
Correct, that was your entry into the social media world, right?
Yeah, I didn't have one in the teams and when I came on to ask you long front JP told me open one up
And you know that there I could watch so many jitz who think yes
Yeah, it's what he how they know what you like it's like how my heart is getting this yeah the whole algorithm thing
Like the algorithm thing I wrote the other fight the algorithm but the problem is when the jitz who video start rolling it's hard to fight that
I was like when we watch that again, bro kind of embrace the algorithm in a way in a way
And LinkedIn you're on LinkedIn yeah, I am on LinkedIn. Yeah, is that do you
You like participate in LinkedIn because you mentioned it a few times today
So I had it when I when I was
Getting ready to transition out of the TV because that's how I started reaching out to people so yeah, I have one of those two
I have LinkedIn too. Yeah, me too. So we're on there echo you got any final questions
That's it. Oh actually
So do you think and I think this may seem like an obvious answer, but more so
Okay, so when you were growing up, you know, I had it so many chores like it was like hard right like so you got used to hard work really
Quickly and thoroughly essentially
Could you feel that like as you know you go through like you know hard things and combat buds like all these hard things or whatever
And because you said you said something kind of interesting where you're like okay on the third time after you got rolled
or whatever third time you passed with no no issues you said a lot of people like buds is like real hard for them
Did you feel that your work ethic that was established
Like was the factor that made it like a non-issue like could you feel that at the time?
Yeah, absolutely
You know it was crazy. I thought about my my stepdad a lot during whole week
Because I thought about how hard he worked. I mean, I mean man worked non-stop seven days a week two jobs
And I was going through hell we got thought about him. I was like you know what he can do that. I could do this right
Yes, I want to provide for myself and my family like
Yeah, yeah, that's what was thinking when you're saying that also it kind of makes you reflect like
You reflect on like something like your childhood then I think man. I should give my kids more chores
You know what's so weird about buds is you just never know who's gonna make it through you really don't
And there's some silver spoon people that go through there and crush it and there's some silver spoon people that wash out day two
And there's some freaking kids that grew up wherever in a shitty situation working their ass off and they quit
Yeah, and there's some kids like that that are awesome. It's so bizarre
It's very bizarre it's very hard to predict there is some
Like some oh
If the guy like they say if I'm someone wrestle that's a really good thing because you have to work really hard
And wrestling that's a that's like an indicator, but it's by no means oh he wrestled
He's gonna make it not at all not at all not even close. Yes, one of the many factors might be a little nudge in the direction of
But it's no guarantee
That's it. No, I'm good to good to see you again. Yeah, like well. Thank you for having me
Any closing thoughts Carlos?
No, not really just a super grateful to be here grateful to be part of the EFT team. It's awesome being around team guys again
Oh, it's a good man. Yeah awesome all right. Well, hey, man. Thanks for
Thanks for coming out today
Obviously, thanks for your service and the teams
And thanks for what you're doing right now to continue to share the lessons that we learned
To help people which is what we're doing just doing our best to help people
I think that you have a great way of
Imparting the messages
Obviously it's great that you can open up us to open up the
Tactics and the strategies and the principles to a whole new audience because you're a fluent Spanish speaker
Which is awesome. It's been awesome to I love watching those videos. Yeah, I'm like because I I can
Understand a little bit of Spanish, you know and because I took three semesters of it when I was at university of San Diego
And so I can understand it. I kind of get the vibe, you know, but man
It's freaking cool to watch so
Yeah, man, it's great. I appreciate it and
Thanks for holding down
The tradition of the teams and thanks all the other frogmen out there still in the teams still keep in the machine rolling on
and upholding the standard set by our forefathers
And thanks all the military person out there in every service for protecting freedom around the world and
To our police law enforcement firefighters paramedics EMT's dispatchers correction officers board patrol secret service all of their first responders
Including your wife Carlos
Thanks for protecting us here at home and
Everybody else out there
The machine will roll-bond
The world's gonna carry on without us that's the reality it would be arrogant to think otherwise
But at the same time
We can make a difference
You can help someone you can teach someone you can inspire someone you can make your part of the world a little bit better
And you do that by going out there every day and
Getting after it
And until next time this is Carlos and echo and juggle out